# Rust: The Language of the Future

Let's learn about the language that is at the forefront of modern software development, **Rust**. It will explain in depth why Rust is so popular and why we need to learn it.

## Why Rust?

Rust is a system programming language that has both performance and safety. In particular, it emphasizes the functional programming paradigm and boasts excellent performance in parallel processing and asynchronous runtime. Rust operates efficiently in single-threaded environments and is used in various fields thanks to the power and wide availability of the community.

### Functional Programming Paradigm

The surprising thing about learning Rust for the first time is that it takes the least characteristics of object orientation, but is not obsessed with object orientation. Let's find out what functional programming is next, and anyway, you can see that it is a system programming language that pursues very modern and clean! In conclusion, Rust emphasizes immutability, making it possible to write stable and predictable codes. These characteristics provide great advantages, especially in parallel processing or asynchronous programming.

### Single Thread Efficiency

Rust basically works very efficiently using 1:1 threads. It also ensures memory safety at compilation time, reducing runtime errors and maximizing performance.

### Community Power and Versatility

Rust is supported by a strong community. The Rust community is actively developing, and various libraries and tools are continuously being developed. This further expands the usability of Rust and makes it possible to be used in various fields such as web development, system programming, and embedded systems.

### WebAssembly and Blockchain

Rust is also gaining huge popularity in web application development due to its affinity with WebAsembly (Wasm). Code written in Rust can be compiled into Wasm and executed with high performance in a browser. Now, Rust, the preferred language in Wasm, is very useful as a smart contract creation language in a blockchain environment into which WasmVM is transplanted. In addition, it is usefully used in various blockchain core developments in that it is a system programming language and is easy to process in parallel. For example, it is used as the main language for developing several blockchain cores such as Solana, Near, Sui, and Aleo.

### Rust vs. Python, Java

Rust has the following differences compared to other languages:

- **Performance**: Rust delivers C/C++-level performance, much faster than Python or Java. Also, Cargo's package manager (saying npm or something) boasts a very good UX for reference in other languages.
- **Memory Safety**: Rust ensures memory safety in compilation time, reducing runtime errors. It is the biggest difference from the other system-side language, C/C++. It reduces unnecessary abstraction, and captures performance! Rust's proprietary ownership system makes this possible.
- **Synchronization**: Rust performs well in parallel processing and asynchronous programming. In fact, ownership systems are not just a memory safety feature. This makes for fearless simultaneous programming.

## Conclusion

Rust is becoming an essential language for blockchain development. Of course, there are high-performance back-end frameworks such as Axum and Rocket. If we work in Web3, Rust would be a really inevitable language. Even if it's an exchange where we work! Rust has a variety of strengths, including functional programming, parallel processing, asynchronous runtime, single-thread efficiency, community power, wide usability, WebAsembly affinity, and usability in the blockchain. Compared to Python, Java, and Go, Rust boasts unrivaled performance and stability. Now let's learn Rust.