# Understanding the Simapp Architecture-2

### Preview

<!-- TODO : preview Mentions -->

In the last lesson, you learned about the main components that make up simapp and what each one does. In this lesson, you'll learn about the code base and what each piece of code means within simapp. The main code content that makes up the app chain exists in app.go. Therefore, we will focus on the code base in app.go in this lesson.

**Note**

In golang, I'm actually quite comfortable with module-based testing through test code, and it helps me understand other people's code even if I don't see it in its entirety. We won't be looking at the test code this time, but it will be very helpful for each of you to understand more questions after this time based on the test code.

---.

### 1. imports in app.go

The first thing we'll look at is the import part in app.go. If you look at the code below, you can see that several modules are imported. The import part is just to show what is implemented in simapp by default and what is provided by the cosmos-sdk. Let's jump right in.

```go
import (
  // ...
  // ...
  // ... somethings

  "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth"
  "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/ante"
  authrest "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/client/rest"
  authkeeper "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/keeper"
  authsims "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/simulation"
  authtx "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/tx"
  authtypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/types"
  "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/vesting"
  vestingtypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/vesting/types"
  "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/authz"
  authzkeeper "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/authz/keeper"
  authzmodule "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/authz/module"
  "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/bank"
  bankkeeper "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/bank/keeper"
  banktypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/bank/types"
  "github.com/cosmos/cosmhkos-sdk/x/capability"
  capabilitykeeper "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/capability/keeper"
  capabilitytypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/capability/types"

  // ... somethings
  // ...
  // ...
)
```

---

### 2. variable & app chain struct

Now, let's take a look at a few more different codebases. The next thing we'll look at is the `SimApp` struct. Basically, a `SimApp` struct is a variable that, as we learned last time, has parts that are forced to satisfy certain interfaces via code like the following. This can be to satisfy the `BaseApp` provided by the cosmos-sdk by default or to provide extensibility to the ABCI interface.

This basically results in something like a `SimApp` structure under the appchain struct that appchain developers must implement. In the code below, I've omitted a lot of code after a certain point.

```go
var (
	// App implements the common methods for a Cosmos SDK-based application specific blockchain.
	_ App                     = (*SimApp)(nil)

	// Application defines an application interface that wraps abci.Application. The interface defines the necessary contracts
	// to be implemented in order to fully bootstrap and start an application.
	_ servertypes.Application = (*SimApp)(nil)
)

// SimApp extends an ABCI application, but with most of its parameters exported.
// They are exported for convenience in creating helper functions, as object
// capabilities aren't needed for testing.
type SimApp struct {
	*baseapp.BaseApp
	legacyAmino       *codec.LegacyAmino
	appCodec          codec.Codec
	interfaceRegistry types.InterfaceRegistry

	invCheckPeriod uint

	// keys to access the substores
	keys    map[string]*sdk.KVStoreKey
	tkeys   map[string]*sdk.TransientStoreKey
	memKeys map[string]*sdk.MemoryStoreKey

	// keepers
	AccountKeeper    authkeeper.AccountKeeper
	BankKeeper       bankkeeper.Keeper
	CapabilityKeeper *capabilitykeeper.Keeper
	StakingKeeper    stakingkeeper.Keeper
	SlashingKeeper   slashingkeeper.Keeper
	MintKeeper       mintkeeper.Keeper
	DistrKeeper      distrkeeper.Keeper
	GovKeeper        govkeeper.Keeper
	CrisisKeeper     crisiskeeper.Keeper
	UpgradeKeeper    upgradekeeper.Keeper
	ParamsKeeper     paramskeeper.Keeper
	AuthzKeeper      authzkeeper.Keeper
	EvidenceKeeper   evidencekeeper.Keeper
	FeeGrantKeeper   feegrantkeeper.Keeper

	// the module manager
	mm *module.Manager

	// simulation manager
	sm *module.SimulationManager

	// module configurator
	configurator module.Configurator
}
```

#### 1. BaseApp

Let's study each of the components that we briefly touched on above. The first topic we'll cover is the `BaseApp`, which is the first thing defined within the `SimApp` structure. This `BaseApp` uses a structure called `BaseApp` that exists in the baseapp module already defined at the cosmos-sdk level, rather than being defined by each AppChain developer.

```go
import 	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/baseapp"
var myapp baseapp.BaseApp
```

The `Simapp` struct is an extension of the `BaseApp` struct, where BaseApp uses the ABCI application implementation by default. If you look at the `BaseApp` struct in the cosmos-sdk level codebase, you can see that it is already defined to satisfy the ABCI (interface to communicate with the CometBFT level) interface as shown below. Since the basic AppChain structure is defined at the SDK level so that it can be connected to the consensus level, AppChain developers only need to worry about application level and business logic rather than consensus level development efforts. In other words, they can spend their time on module development.

```go
// baseapp module

var (
	_ abci.Application = (*BaseApp)(nil)
)

// ref; https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.45.4/baseapp/baseapp.go#L48
// BaseApp reflects the ABCI application implementation.
type BaseApp struct { // nolint: maligned
	// initialized on creation
	logger            log.Logger
	name              string               // application name from abci.Info
	db                dbm.DB               // common DB backend
	cms               sdk.CommitMultiStore // Main (uncached) state

  // ...
  // ...
  // something codes...
}
```

#### 2. Codecs

The next thing we'll look at is codecs. A codec is something that compresses data. As I mentioned in the last article, in blockchains that use level-db, it is too large or heavy to store any data in the DB for human use. Therefore, each chain has a codec to compress data according to a specific format. The cosmos-sdk uses a codec called protobuf as the main one. And amino is an old codec that remains legacy.

The interfaceRegistry includes the process of registering only unique types according to the `type_url` through the registry because malicious data may come in during the encoding & decoding process through the codec at the application level.

```go
type SimApp struct {
	legacyAmino       *codec.LegacyAmino        // 레거시 amino 코덱
	appCodec          codec.Codec               // 현재의 protobuf 코덱
	interfaceRegistry types.InterfaceRegistry   // type_url register
}
```

#### 3. Keys map

And you can see that the `SimApp` structure contains a map of different keys. These are simply keys separated for different purposes.

- keys: a persistent key-value store, where the value corresponding to each key is a pointer of type sdk.KVStoreKey
- tkeys: a key-value store that is temporarily stored per block, used by baseapp's CommitTransientStore
- memkeys: memory-based key-value store, mainly used by baseapp's CommitKVStore

```go
	// keys to access the substores
	keys    map[string]*sdk.KVStoreKey
	tkeys   map[string]*sdk.TransientStoreKey
	memKeys map[string]*sdk.MemoryStoreKey

```

You'll learn more about usability as you learn the module.

#### 4. Keepers

Next up is the Keeper. Keepers play a very important role in the cosmos-sdk. You can think of a keeper as the interface implementation of the getter+setter interface that you've probably heard of as a developer. The reason for this implementation is that each module may require other modules. For example, if the library lending program we mentioned earlier requires you to pay 100 cents to borrow a book, the `borring module` would need to have a keeper for the `bank module` passed to the interface to lock up a certain amount of money with the loan.

This won't work, because the account keeper isn't there first, and the

```go
	// keepers
	AccountKeeper    authkeeper.AccountKeeper
	BankKeeper       bankkeeper.Keeper
	CapabilityKeeper *capabilitykeeper.Keeper
	StakingKeeper    stakingkeeper.Keeper
	SlashingKeeper   slashingkeeper.Keeper
	MintKeeper       mintkeeper.Keeper
	DistrKeeper      distrkeeper.Keeper
	GovKeeper        govkeeper.Keeper
	CrisisKeeper     crisiskeeper.Keeper
	UpgradeKeeper    upgradekeeper.Keeper
	ParamsKeeper     paramskeeper.Keeper
	AuthzKeeper      authzkeeper.Keeper
	EvidenceKeeper   evidencekeeper.Keeper
	FeeGrantKeeper   feegrantkeeper.Keeper
```

And often, there are keepers that have dependencies between keepers, such as the ones shown below, that need to be respected in order to work.

```go
	// The following is in the creator method, not the SimApp struct.

	// NOTE: Beware of the Keeper's Coffin Causality.
	// add keepers
	app.AccountKeeper = authkeeper.NewAccountKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[authtypes.StoreKey], app.GetSubspace(authtypes.ModuleName), authtypes.ProtoBaseAccount, maccPerms,
	)

	// If BankKeeper is declared before AccountKeeper, it will not work.
	app.BankKeeper = bankkeeper.NewBaseKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[banktypes.StoreKey], app.AccountKeeper, app.GetSubspace(banktypes.ModuleName), app.ModuleAccountAddrs(),
	)
```

You should now have a general understanding of the types in the simapp structure. Next, let's learn the AppCreater, NewSimApp.

### AppCreater function, `NewSimApp`

In this section, we'll cover the creator method, which instantiates the SimApp struct we defined above. This part will be similar for most chains, so you shouldn't need to read too much into it, but it's important to note that it returns the `SimApp` struct we defined above as a pointer, and that the order of the steps in building that struct is very important. 
As a homework assignment, each of you should create a `simapp` chain with your own name in the form of an `alicechain`, `bobchain`, etc. It would be meaningful to test your own work.

```go
// NewSimApp returns a reference to an initialized SimApp.
func NewSimApp(
	logger log.Logger, db dbm.DB, traceStore io.Writer, loadLatest bool, skipUpgradeHeights map[int64]bool,
	homePath string, invCheckPeriod uint, encodingConfig simappparams.EncodingConfig,
	appOpts servertypes.AppOptions, baseAppOptions ...func(*baseapp.BaseApp),
) *SimApp {

	appCodec := encodingConfig.Marshaler
	legacyAmino := encodingConfig.Amino
	interfaceRegistry := encodingConfig.InterfaceRegistry

	bApp := baseapp.NewBaseApp(appName, logger, db, encodingConfig.TxConfig.TxDecoder(), baseAppOptions...)
	bApp.SetCommitMultiStoreTracer(traceStore)
	bApp.SetVersion(version.Version)
	bApp.SetInterfaceRegistry(interfaceRegistry)

	keys := sdk.NewKVStoreKeys(
		authtypes.StoreKey, banktypes.StoreKey, stakingtypes.StoreKey,
		minttypes.StoreKey, distrtypes.StoreKey, slashingtypes.StoreKey,
		govtypes.StoreKey, paramstypes.StoreKey, upgradetypes.StoreKey, feegrant.StoreKey,
		evidencetypes.StoreKey, capabilitytypes.StoreKey,
		authzkeeper.StoreKey,
	)
	tkeys := sdk.NewTransientStoreKeys(paramstypes.TStoreKey)
	// NOTE: The testingkey is just mounted for testing purposes. Actual applications should
	// not include this key.
	memKeys := sdk.NewMemoryStoreKeys(capabilitytypes.MemStoreKey, "testingkey")

	app := &SimApp{
		BaseApp:           bApp,
		legacyAmino:       legacyAmino,
		appCodec:          appCodec,
		interfaceRegistry: interfaceRegistry,
		invCheckPeriod:    invCheckPeriod,
		keys:              keys,
		tkeys:             tkeys,
		memKeys:           memKeys,
	}

	app.ParamsKeeper = initParamsKeeper(appCodec, legacyAmino, keys[paramstypes.StoreKey], tkeys[paramstypes.TStoreKey])

	// set the BaseApp's parameter store
	bApp.SetParamStore(app.ParamsKeeper.Subspace(baseapp.Paramspace).WithKeyTable(paramskeeper.ConsensusParamsKeyTable()))

	app.CapabilityKeeper = capabilitykeeper.NewKeeper(appCodec, keys[capabilitytypes.StoreKey], memKeys[capabilitytypes.MemStoreKey])
	// Applications that wish to enforce statically created ScopedKeepers should call `Seal` after creating
	// their scoped modules in `NewApp` with `ScopeToModule`
	app.CapabilityKeeper.Seal()

	// add keepers
	app.AccountKeeper = authkeeper.NewAccountKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[authtypes.StoreKey], app.GetSubspace(authtypes.ModuleName), authtypes.ProtoBaseAccount, maccPerms,
	)
	app.BankKeeper = bankkeeper.NewBaseKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[banktypes.StoreKey], app.AccountKeeper, app.GetSubspace(banktypes.ModuleName), app.ModuleAccountAddrs(),
	)
	stakingKeeper := stakingkeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[stakingtypes.StoreKey], app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.GetSubspace(stakingtypes.ModuleName),
	)
	app.MintKeeper = mintkeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[minttypes.StoreKey], app.GetSubspace(minttypes.ModuleName), &stakingKeeper,
		app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, authtypes.FeeCollectorName,
	)
	app.DistrKeeper = distrkeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[distrtypes.StoreKey], app.GetSubspace(distrtypes.ModuleName), app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper,
		&stakingKeeper, authtypes.FeeCollectorName, app.ModuleAccountAddrs(),
	)
	app.SlashingKeeper = slashingkeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[slashingtypes.StoreKey], &stakingKeeper, app.GetSubspace(slashingtypes.ModuleName),
	)
	app.CrisisKeeper = crisiskeeper.NewKeeper(
		app.GetSubspace(crisistypes.ModuleName), invCheckPeriod, app.BankKeeper, authtypes.FeeCollectorName,
	)

	app.FeeGrantKeeper = feegrantkeeper.NewKeeper(appCodec, keys[feegrant.StoreKey], app.AccountKeeper)
	app.UpgradeKeeper = upgradekeeper.NewKeeper(skipUpgradeHeights, keys[upgradetypes.StoreKey], appCodec, homePath, app.BaseApp)

	// register the staking hooks
	// NOTE: stakingKeeper above is passed by reference, so that it will contain these hooks
	app.StakingKeeper = *stakingKeeper.SetHooks(
		stakingtypes.NewMultiStakingHooks(app.DistrKeeper.Hooks(), app.SlashingKeeper.Hooks()),
	)

	app.AuthzKeeper = authzkeeper.NewKeeper(keys[authzkeeper.StoreKey], appCodec, app.BaseApp.MsgServiceRouter())

	// register the proposal types
	govRouter := govtypes.NewRouter()
	govRouter.AddRoute(govtypes.RouterKey, govtypes.ProposalHandler).
		AddRoute(paramproposal.RouterKey, params.NewParamChangeProposalHandler(app.ParamsKeeper)).
		AddRoute(distrtypes.RouterKey, distr.NewCommunityPoolSpendProposalHandler(app.DistrKeeper)).
		AddRoute(upgradetypes.RouterKey, upgrade.NewSoftwareUpgradeProposalHandler(app.UpgradeKeeper))
	govKeeper := govkeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[govtypes.StoreKey], app.GetSubspace(govtypes.ModuleName), app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper,
		&stakingKeeper, govRouter,
	)

	app.GovKeeper = *govKeeper.SetHooks(
		govtypes.NewMultiGovHooks(
		// register the governance hooks
		),
	)

	// create evidence keeper with router
	evidenceKeeper := evidencekeeper.NewKeeper(
		appCodec, keys[evidencetypes.StoreKey], &app.StakingKeeper, app.SlashingKeeper,
	)
	// If evidence needs to be handled for the app, set routes in router here and seal
	app.EvidenceKeeper = *evidenceKeeper

	/****  Module Options ****/

	// NOTE: we may consider parsing `appOpts` inside module constructors. For the moment
	// we prefer to be more strict in what arguments the modules expect.
	var skipGenesisInvariants = cast.ToBool(appOpts.Get(crisis.FlagSkipGenesisInvariants))

	// NOTE: Any module instantiated in the module manager that is later modified
	// must be passed by reference here.
	app.mm = module.NewManager(
		genutil.NewAppModule(
			app.AccountKeeper, app.StakingKeeper, app.BaseApp.DeliverTx,
			encodingConfig.TxConfig,
		),
		auth.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AccountKeeper, authsims.RandomGenesisAccounts),
		vesting.NewAppModule(app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper),
		bank.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.BankKeeper, app.AccountKeeper),
		capability.NewAppModule(appCodec, *app.CapabilityKeeper),
		crisis.NewAppModule(&app.CrisisKeeper, skipGenesisInvariants),
		feegrantmodule.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.FeeGrantKeeper, app.interfaceRegistry),
		gov.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.GovKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper),
		mint.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.MintKeeper, app.AccountKeeper),
		slashing.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.SlashingKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.StakingKeeper),
		distr.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.DistrKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.StakingKeeper),
		staking.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.StakingKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper),
		upgrade.NewAppModule(app.UpgradeKeeper),
		evidence.NewAppModule(app.EvidenceKeeper),
		params.NewAppModule(app.ParamsKeeper),
		authzmodule.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AuthzKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.interfaceRegistry),
	)

	// During begin block slashing happens after distr.BeginBlocker so that
	// there is nothing left over in the validator fee pool, so as to keep the
	// CanWithdrawInvariant invariant.
	// NOTE: staking module is required if HistoricalEntries param > 0
	// NOTE: capability module's beginblocker must come before any modules using capabilities (e.g. IBC)
	app.mm.SetOrderBeginBlockers(
		upgradetypes.ModuleName, capabilitytypes.ModuleName, minttypes.ModuleName, distrtypes.ModuleName, slashingtypes.ModuleName,
		evidencetypes.ModuleName, stakingtypes.ModuleName,
		authtypes.ModuleName, banktypes.ModuleName, govtypes.ModuleName, crisistypes.ModuleName, genutiltypes.ModuleName,
		authz.ModuleName, feegrant.ModuleName,
		paramstypes.ModuleName, vestingtypes.ModuleName,
	)
	app.mm.SetOrderEndBlockers(
		crisistypes.ModuleName, govtypes.ModuleName, stakingtypes.ModuleName,
		capabilitytypes.ModuleName, authtypes.ModuleName, banktypes.ModuleName, distrtypes.ModuleName,
		slashingtypes.ModuleName, minttypes.ModuleName,
		genutiltypes.ModuleName, evidencetypes.ModuleName, authz.ModuleName,
		feegrant.ModuleName,
		paramstypes.ModuleName, upgradetypes.ModuleName, vestingtypes.ModuleName,
	)

	// NOTE: The genutils module must occur after staking so that pools are
	// properly initialized with tokens from genesis accounts.
	// NOTE: Capability module must occur first so that it can initialize any capabilities
	// so that other modules that want to create or claim capabilities afterwards in InitChain
	// can do so safely.
	app.mm.SetOrderInitGenesis(
		capabilitytypes.ModuleName, authtypes.ModuleName, banktypes.ModuleName, distrtypes.ModuleName, stakingtypes.ModuleName,
		slashingtypes.ModuleName, govtypes.ModuleName, minttypes.ModuleName, crisistypes.ModuleName,
		genutiltypes.ModuleName, evidencetypes.ModuleName, authz.ModuleName,
		feegrant.ModuleName,
		paramstypes.ModuleName, upgradetypes.ModuleName, vestingtypes.ModuleName,
	)

	// Uncomment if you want to set a custom migration order here.
	// app.mm.SetOrderMigrations(custom order)

	app.mm.RegisterInvariants(&app.CrisisKeeper)
	app.mm.RegisterRoutes(app.Router(), app.QueryRouter(), encodingConfig.Amino)
	app.configurator = module.NewConfigurator(app.appCodec, app.MsgServiceRouter(), app.GRPCQueryRouter())
	app.mm.RegisterServices(app.configurator)

	// add test gRPC service for testing gRPC queries in isolation
	testdata.RegisterQueryServer(app.GRPCQueryRouter(), testdata.QueryImpl{})

	// create the simulation manager and define the order of the modules for deterministic simulations
	//
	// NOTE: this is not required apps that don't use the simulator for fuzz testing
	// transactions
	app.sm = module.NewSimulationManager(
		auth.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AccountKeeper, authsims.RandomGenesisAccounts),
		bank.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.BankKeeper, app.AccountKeeper),
		capability.NewAppModule(appCodec, *app.CapabilityKeeper),
		feegrantmodule.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.FeeGrantKeeper, app.interfaceRegistry),
		gov.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.GovKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper),
		mint.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.MintKeeper, app.AccountKeeper),
		staking.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.StakingKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper),
		distr.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.DistrKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.StakingKeeper),
		slashing.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.SlashingKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.StakingKeeper),
		params.NewAppModule(app.ParamsKeeper),
		evidence.NewAppModule(app.EvidenceKeeper),
		authzmodule.NewAppModule(appCodec, app.AuthzKeeper, app.AccountKeeper, app.BankKeeper, app.interfaceRegistry),
	)

	app.sm.RegisterStoreDecoders()

	// initialize stores
	app.MountKVStores(keys)
	app.MountTransientStores(tkeys)
	app.MountMemoryStores(memKeys)

	// initialize BaseApp
	app.SetInitChainer(app.InitChainer)
	app.SetBeginBlocker(app.BeginBlocker)

	anteHandler, err := ante.NewAnteHandler(
		ante.HandlerOptions{
			AccountKeeper:   app.AccountKeeper,
			BankKeeper:      app.BankKeeper,
			SignModeHandler: encodingConfig.TxConfig.SignModeHandler(),
			FeegrantKeeper:  app.FeeGrantKeeper,
			SigGasConsumer:  ante.DefaultSigVerificationGasConsumer,
		},
	)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	app.SetAnteHandler(anteHandler)
	app.SetEndBlocker(app.EndBlocker)

	if loadLatest {
		if err := app.LoadLatestVersion(); err != nil {
			tmos.Exit(err.Error())
		}
	}

	return app
}
```

In addition, I will give a few notes based on my own experience of adding and subtracting things.

1. Pay close attention to the functions marked with NOTE below. If you do not follow these rules, your NewSimApp may not build properly or create blocks correctly.

```go
	// NOTE: staking module is required if HistoricalEntries param > 0
	// NOTE: capability module's beginblocker must come before any modules using capabilities (e.g. IBC)

	// During the begin block, slashing occurs after distr.BeginBlocker to ensure there is no
    // so that there is nothing left, preserving the CanWithdrawInvariant invariant.
    // Note: If the HistoricalEntries parameter is greater than zero, the staking module is required.
    // Note: The capability module's beginblocker must come before the module that uses capabilities (ex: IBC).

	app.mm.SetOrderBeginBlockers(/* something codes...*/ )

	// NOTE: Capability module must occur first so that it can initialize any capabilities
    // NOTE: The genutils module must occur after staking so that the pool is properly initialized with tokens from the genesis account.
    // Note: The capabilities module must occur first so that it can be safely initialized by other modules later in InitChain.
    // Note The genutils module must occur after staking and bank to properly set up the Genesis Validator.
  	app.mm.SetOrderInitGenesis(
		capabilitytypes.ModuleName,
		authtypes.ModuleName,

		stakingtypes.ModuleName,
		banktypes.ModuleName,

		// genutils는 staking, bank be sure to follow it with a
		genutiltypes.ModuleName,
		paramstypes.ModuleName,
		/* something codes... */
	)
```

2. And if you don't load the app struct before returning it, the node won't boot properly because it won't be able to access the memory properly from the pointer passed to it afterward.

```go
	if loadLatest {
		if err := app.LoadLatestVersion(); err != nil {
			tmos.Exit(err.Error())
		}
	}
```

3. The staking module is required. This is because it is required when invoking gentxs commands.
   https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.45.4/x/genutil/gentx.go#L46C24-L46C39

There are probably a lot of other things you don't know about. You'll learn more as you debug, so let's move on.

### Default Method for `SimApp`

The final step is to provide the implemented `Simapp` with a default method, such as the ABCI interface. The code below is pretty self-explanatory, so we'll end this article with a quick look at it.

```go
// Name returns the name of the App
func (app *SimApp) Name() string { return app.BaseApp.Name() }

// BeginBlocker application updates every begin block
func (app *SimApp) BeginBlocker(ctx sdk.Context, req abci.RequestBeginBlock) abci.ResponseBeginBlock {
	return app.mm.BeginBlock(ctx, req)
}

// EndBlocker application updates every end block
func (app *SimApp) EndBlocker(ctx sdk.Context, req abci.RequestEndBlock) abci.ResponseEndBlock {
	return app.mm.EndBlock(ctx, req)
}

// InitChainer application update at chain initialization
func (app *SimApp) InitChainer(ctx sdk.Context, req abci.RequestInitChain) abci.ResponseInitChain {
	var genesisState GenesisState
	if err := json.Unmarshal(req.AppStateBytes, &genesisState); err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	app.UpgradeKeeper.SetModuleVersionMap(ctx, app.mm.GetVersionMap())
	return app.mm.InitGenesis(ctx, app.appCodec, genesisState)
}

// LoadHeight loads a particular height
func (app *SimApp) LoadHeight(height int64) error {
	return app.LoadVersion(height)
}

// ModuleAccountAddrs returns all the app's module account addresses.
func (app *SimApp) ModuleAccountAddrs() map[string]bool {
	modAccAddrs := make(map[string]bool)
	for acc := range maccPerms {
		modAccAddrs[authtypes.NewModuleAddress(acc).String()] = true
	}

	return modAccAddrs
}

// LegacyAmino returns SimApp's amino codec.
//
// NOTE: This is solely to be used for testing purposes as it may be desirable
// for modules to register their own custom testing types.
func (app *SimApp) LegacyAmino() *codec.LegacyAmino {
	return app.legacyAmino
}

// AppCodec returns SimApp's app codec.
//
// NOTE: This is solely to be used for testing purposes as it may be desirable
// for modules to register their own custom testing types.
func (app *SimApp) AppCodec() codec.Codec {
	return app.appCodec
}

// InterfaceRegistry returns SimApp's InterfaceRegistry
func (app *SimApp) InterfaceRegistry() types.InterfaceRegistry {
	return app.interfaceRegistry
}

// GetKey returns the KVStoreKey for the provided store key.
//
// NOTE: This is solely to be used for testing purposes.
func (app *SimApp) GetKey(storeKey string) *sdk.KVStoreKey {
	return app.keys[storeKey]
}

// GetTKey returns the TransientStoreKey for the provided store key.
//
// NOTE: This is solely to be used for testing purposes.
func (app *SimApp) GetTKey(storeKey string) *sdk.TransientStoreKey {
	return app.tkeys[storeKey]
}

// GetMemKey returns the MemStoreKey for the provided mem key.
//
// NOTE: This is solely used for testing purposes.
func (app *SimApp) GetMemKey(storeKey string) *sdk.MemoryStoreKey {
	return app.memKeys[storeKey]
}

// GetSubspace returns a param subspace for a given module name.
//
// NOTE: This is solely to be used for testing purposes.
func (app *SimApp) GetSubspace(moduleName string) paramstypes.Subspace {
	subspace, _ := app.ParamsKeeper.GetSubspace(moduleName)
	return subspace
}

// SimulationManager implements the SimulationApp interface
func (app *SimApp) SimulationManager() *module.SimulationManager {
	return app.sm
}

// RegisterAPIRoutes registers all application module routes with the provided
// API server.
func (app *SimApp) RegisterAPIRoutes(apiSvr *api.Server, apiConfig config.APIConfig) {
	clientCtx := apiSvr.ClientCtx
	rpc.RegisterRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.Router)
	// Register legacy tx routes.
	authrest.RegisterTxRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.Router)
	// Register new tx routes from grpc-gateway.
	authtx.RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.GRPCGatewayRouter)
	// Register new tendermint queries routes from grpc-gateway.
	tmservice.RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.GRPCGatewayRouter)

	// Register legacy and grpc-gateway routes for all modules.
	ModuleBasics.RegisterRESTRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.Router)
	ModuleBasics.RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes(clientCtx, apiSvr.GRPCGatewayRouter)

	// register swagger API from root so that other applications can override easily
	if apiConfig.Swagger {
		RegisterSwaggerAPI(clientCtx, apiSvr.Router)
	}
}

// RegisterTxService implements the Application.RegisterTxService method.
func (app *SimApp) RegisterTxService(clientCtx client.Context) {
	authtx.RegisterTxService(app.BaseApp.GRPCQueryRouter(), clientCtx, app.BaseApp.Simulate, app.interfaceRegistry)
}

// RegisterTendermintService implements the Application.RegisterTendermintService method.
func (app *SimApp) RegisterTendermintService(clientCtx client.Context) {
	tmservice.RegisterTendermintService(app.BaseApp.GRPCQueryRouter(), clientCtx, app.interfaceRegistry)
}

// RegisterSwaggerAPI registers swagger route with API Server
func RegisterSwaggerAPI(ctx client.Context, rtr *mux.Router) {
	statikFS, err := fs.New()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	staticServer := http.FileServer(statikFS)
	rtr.PathPrefix("/swagger/").Handler(http.StripPrefix("/swagger/", staticServer))
}

// GetMaccPerms returns a copy of the module account permissions
func GetMaccPerms() map[string][]string {
	dupMaccPerms := make(map[string][]string)
	for k, v := range maccPerms {
		dupMaccPerms[k] = v
	}
	return dupMaccPerms
}

// initParamsKeeper init params keeper and its subspaces
func initParamsKeeper(appCodec codec.BinaryCodec, legacyAmino *codec.LegacyAmino, key, tkey sdk.StoreKey) paramskeeper.Keeper {
	paramsKeeper := paramskeeper.NewKeeper(appCodec, legacyAmino, key, tkey)

	paramsKeeper.Subspace(authtypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(banktypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(stakingtypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(minttypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(distrtypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(slashingtypes.ModuleName)
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(govtypes.ModuleName).WithKeyTable(govtypes.ParamKeyTable())
	paramsKeeper.Subspace(crisistypes.ModuleName)

	return paramsKeeper
}
```

#### References

https://youtu.be/G6QUIUwYaSU?si=ybFnMlRZ3idgBLeK
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.45.4/simapp/app.go
