# Transactions and mempools

> Since Tendermint [migrated to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) from cosmos-sdk v0.47, the article is based on cosmos-sdk v0.47, cometbft v0.38.

## 0. Transactions

At its core, blockchain is a replicated (deterministic) state machine. A distributed system run by global participants must all have the same state and behave as if they were a single system. Transactions are what trigger these state transitions. Inside a transaction is a request that changes the state of the blockchain network. Transactions are initiated by users, which propagate through the blockchain network and are included in validated blocks once they reach consensus. Once you define these state machines, CometBFT at the consensus engine layer takes care of replicating them across the network.

```
+--------+                              +--------+
|        |                              |        |
|   S    +----------------------------> |   S'   |
|        |   For each T in B: apply(T)  |        |
+--------+                              +--------+
```

### 1. Transactions Interface

The transaction interface used by the Cosmos-SDK is as follows
[v0.47.0/tx_msg.go#L39-L46](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L42-L50)

- [`GetMsgs`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L45): Unwraps the transaction and returns the list it contains.
- [`sdk.Msg`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L14-L26): There can be one or multiple messages in a transaction.
- Tx.[`ValidateBasic`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L49): Contains lightweight, stateless checks used by `CheckTx' and `DeliverTx' in ABCI messages to determine if a transaction is invalid. For example, the function [`ValidateBasic`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx/types.go#L36) verifies that the transaction was signed by the correct number of signers and that the fee does not exceed the user's maximum amount.
- Msg.[`ValidateBasic`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L20): The [`ValidateBasic`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L526-L540) function for sdk.Msg that performs only basic validation on the message.
- Msg.[`GetSigners`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/tx_msg.go#L25): All messages in the transaction must be signed with the addresses specified in `GetSigners`.

What should not be confusing here is that the `ValidateBasic` function defined in each Tx and Msg has the same name but different functionality. Here is an example of the behavior

1. when [`runTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L618) checks the transactions created in the auth module, it first runs `Msg.ValidateBasic` for each message.
2. then run the auth module's [`AnteHandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/handler.go#L8) to call `Tx.ValidateBasic` for the transaction itself.

```go
Tx interface {
	GetMsgs() []Msg
	ValidateBasic() error
}

Msg interface {
	proto.Message
	ValidateBasic() error
	GetSigners() []AccAddress
}
```

> For more detailed behavior, see [`2. Transaction Life Cycle`] (./10_transaction_and_mempool.md#3-Transaction-Life-Cycle---Agreement) below.

Developers rarely customize the transaction interface directly. It is part of the internal process used to create transactions. Developers typically use the [`TxBuilder`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.45.4/client/tx_config.go#L36-L46) interface.

### 2. Message

> Transaction internal messages should not be confused with ABCI messages, which define the interaction between the CometBFT consensus layer and the app layer.

Messages inside a transaction are the elements that trigger state transitions within the scope of the module they belong to. This design puts more responsibility on the module developer:

1. module developers define module messages by adding methods to the Protobuf Msg service and defining an `MsgServer`.
2. Each [sdk.Msg](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.45.4/types/tx_msg.go#L11-L22) is associated with exactly one Protobuf Msg service RPC defined in each module's `tx.proto` file. 
3. the Cosmos SDK app router automatically maps all `sdk.Msg`s to the corresponding RPC service and routes them to the appropriate method.
4. Protobuf creates an `MsgServer` interface for each module's Msg service, and module developers implement this interface.

This makes it easy for application developers to import and use modules without having to repeatedly implement state transition logic. The message contains information about the state transition logic, but other metadata and related information about the transaction is stored in the context of the [`TxBuilder`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx_config.go#L33-L50).

## 1. Mempool (In-memory Cache)

Transactions are independently managed by an in-memory cache, which became known as Mempool after Bitcoin.

The main roles of [`Mempool`](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/v0.37.0/mempool/mempool.go#L32) are as follows

- Post-validation collection: When a transaction is received, it is validated by each module [`AnteHandler'](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/handler.go#L8) and, if valid, added to the Mempool.
- Broadcasting to peer nodes: Valid transactions are broadcast to peer nodes. The function [`p2p.switch.BroadcastEnvelope`](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/v0.37.0/p2p/switch.go#L265-L294) uses a goroutine to send asynchronously to a set of peers (validators).
- Propose the collected transactions: The proposer fetches transactions from the mempool to put in a new block.
- Post-commit cleanup: After a block is committed, the transactions stored in the Mempool are deleted and revalidated.

As of v0.47, with the [migration to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) from Tendermint, applications have their own [`Mempool`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/types/mempool/mempool.go), allowing them to build much more fine-grained blocks than in previous versions. While there are a myriad of designs that developers can create for Mempools, the Cosmos SDK has chosen to provide only a simple Mempool implementation:

1. [`No-op Mempool`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/types/mempool/noop.go): Assumes that when the BaseApp interacts with the Mempool, it relies on the order of transactions in the CometBFT defined in RequestPrepareProposal, which are sorted in FIFO order by default. 
2. [`Sender Nonce Mempool`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/types/mempool/sender_nonce.go): A mempool that stores transactions in a list sorted by nonce to avoid nonce issues.
3. [`Priority Nonce Mempool`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/types/mempool/priority_nonce.go): A [`Mempool`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/types/mempool/priority_nonce_spec.md) that stores txs in a two-dimensional set partially sorted by priority and sender nonce. Internally, it uses two lists: one prioritized skiplist and one skiplist sorted by sender nonce.

Now, let's move on to the most important part of this article: the transaction life cycle. This will give you a deeper understanding of transactions on the blockchain and the overall application structure.

## Transaction lifecycle

In Cosmos SDK applications, transactions that contain one or more valid messages are collected and validated by a consensus engine such as CometBFT and have instant finality, which is a permanent state transition once the Tendermint consensus process is achieved. Therefore, when a transaction is included in a block, it is finalized immediately without the re-org issues or rollback possibilities that occur in Ethereum chains. We'll break this down into the following two processes:

1. collecting and validating transactions
2. proposing, agreeing, and committing transactions

## 2. Transaction Lifecycle - Acquisition and Verification

First, let's look at the process of creating a transaction and broadcasting it.

### 1. Creating and Broadcasting a Transaction

An end user creates and sends a transaction to a consensus engine like CometBFT. This process is consensus-agnostic, so it can work with a variety of consensus engines. After deciding what messages to put in the transaction, the transaction is created using `TxBuilder`. The transaction is signed using the client's private key to ensure authenticity and integrity. Typically, app developers create an entry point to their app in the application's `./cmd` folder. Once a transaction is created, it can be broadcast through the following interface functions in that folder

1. CLI interface
2. gRPC
3. REST

#### 1. CLI Interface

The simplest way to create transactions is to use the CLI interface. For the CLI, the module developer can create a `subCommand` and add it as a subcommand to the application's top-level transaction command, `TxCmd`.

The CLI command actually bundles all the steps of transaction processing, including message creation, transaction generation, and broadcasting, into one simple command. A user can create a transaction in the CLI by entering a command of the following form, with the transaction type in `[command]`, arguments in `[args]`, and configuration, such as gas price, in `[flags]`:

```sh
[appname] tx [command] [args] [flags]
```

#### 2. gRPC

gRPC is the main component of the RPC layer in the Cosmos SDK. It is mostly used in the `queryService` part of the module. To broadcast a transaction using gRPC, you need to create, sign, and encode the transaction programmatically using the CLI or programmatically using Go. You can then broadcast via the `Tx` gRPC service, which provides broadcasting capabilities as a non-module feature.

```sh
grpcurl -plaintext \
    -d '{“tx_bytes”:“{{txBytes}}”,“mode”:“BROADCAST_MODE_SYNC”}' \Β
    localhost:9090 \
    cosmos.tx.v1beta1.Service/BroadcastTx
```

#### 3. REST

Like gRPC, REST also does not allow you to create or sign transactions directly, but only broadcasts. Each gRPC method has a corresponding REST endpoint created using a gRPC gateway. So instead of using gRPC, you can also broadcast the same transaction using HTTP on the POST `/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs` endpoint.

```sh
curl -X POST \
    -H “Content-Type: application/json” \
    -d'{“tx_bytes”:“{{txBytes}}”,“mode”:“BROADCAST_MODE_SYNC”}' \
    localhost:1317/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs
```

For ease of understanding, let's walk through the process of creating and sending a transaction in code using a simulated example. The CLI is the simplest way to do this because it handles all the steps of composing a message, creating a transaction, and broadcasting it all at once. For example, let's create and send a token send transaction for the `x/bank` module using the CLI. An example CLI command might look like this

```sh
// Automatically generates a transaction, (sign) it using the account's private key, and propagates it to the specified peer nodes.
simd tx bank send $MY_VALIDATOR_ADDRESS $RECIPIENT 1000stake
```

1. Create a transaction with a single Msg (`MsgSend` in `x/bank`).
   - Generate the transaction message
   - Call `tx.GenerateOrBroadcastTxCLI`
   - Create a `TxFactory` (create a `TxBuilder` via its Facotory type method)
   - Validate the transaction message with `msg.ValidateBasic`.
2. (optional) [Request user confirmation to send transaction](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx/tx.go#L90-L107) from the `MY_VALIDATOR_ADDRESS` account.
3. sign the generated transaction with the account.
4. broadcast the signed transaction to the network (since the CLI is connecting to the CometBFT RPC endpoint on the node).

Now let's walk through the code step by step The code to create the corresponding command transaction with the CLI looks like this [x/bank/client/cli/tx.go#L35-L71](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/bank/client/cli/tx.go#L35-L71)

```go
func NewSendTxCmd() *cobra.Command {
	cmd := &cobra.Command{
		Use: "send [from_key_or_address] [to_address] [amount]",
		Short: `Send funds from one account to another. Note, the'--from' flag is
ignored as it is implied from [from_key_or_address].`,
		Args: cobra.ExactArgs(3),
		RunE: func(cmd *cobra.Command, args []string) error {
		 	// ...

			msg := types.NewMsgSend(clientCtx.GetFromAddress(), toAddr, coins)

			return tx.GenerateOrBroadcastTxCLI(clientCtx, cmd.Flags(), msg)
		},
	}

	flags.AddTxFlagsToCmd(cmd)

	return cmd
}
```

This can be seen by calling the [`GenerateOrBroadcastTxCLI`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx/tx.go#L26) function to create and broadcast a `TxFactory`. This function works like this:

```go
func GenerateOrBroadcastTxCLI(clientCtx client.Context, flagSet *pflag.FlagSet, msgs ...sdk.Msg) error {
	txf := NewFactoryCLI(clientCtx, flagSet)

	for _, msg := range msgs {
		if err := msg.ValidateBasic(); err != nil {
			return err
		}
	}

	return BroadcastTx(clientCtx, txf, msgs...)
}
```

When we call the function [`BroadcastTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx/tx.go#L62-L126), it creates a `TxBuilder` from the `TxFactory`, validates the message, and broadcasts it. In code, the logic is running as follows:

```go
func BroadcastTx(clientCtx client.Context, txf Factory, msgs ...sdk.Msg) error {
	txf, err := prepareFactory(clientCtx, txf)

	// simulate...

	// BuildUnsignedTx creates an unsigned tx (TxBuilder) from a given message.
	tx, err := BuildUnsignedTx(txf, msgs...)

	tx.SetFeeGranter(clientCtx.GetFeeGranterAddress())

	// Sign the transaction.
	err = Sign(txf, clientCtx.GetFromName(), tx, true)


	// Encodes the signed transaction in bytes format and broadcasts it to other nodes.
	txBytes, err := clientCtx.TxConfig.TxEncoder()(tx.GetTx())
	res, err := clientCtx.BroadcastTx(txBytes)

	return clientCtx.PrintProto(res)
}
```

The [`TxBuilder`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx_config.go#L33-L50) interface contains the data required to create a transaction, and can be freely configured by the end user to create the transaction they want. Since there are currently two signature modes for signing transactions, there are also two implementations of `TxBuilder`:

- [wrapper](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/auth/tx/builder.go#L18-L34) for transaction creation is for `SIGN_MODE_DIRECT` only.
- The [StdTxBuilder](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/auth/migrations/legacytx/stdtx_builder.go#L15-L21) is for `SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON` only.

[`TxConfig`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx_config.go#L22-L31) is the app settings for transaction management. End users should prefer to use the `TxConfig` interface, so the `TxBuilder` mode should be hidden inside the configuration. The difference is that the value of this setting contains information about whether each transaction should be signed with `SIGN_MODE_DIRECT` or `SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON`.

- After calling `txBuilder := txConfig.NewTxBuilder()` in the `BuildUnsignedTx` function, a new `TxBuilder` with the appropriate signature mode is created by setting the value of `TxBuilder` with the setter.
- `TxConfig` does a good job of encoding bytes to match the set value (`SIGN_MODE_DIRECT` or `SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON`).

When transmitted to the network via the [`BroadcastTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/client/tx/tx.go#L62-L126) function, each node receives the transaction from the other nodes, which in turn propagates the transaction to other nodes in the network. This ensures that every node has a copy of the transaction. The specific broadcasting method may vary depending on the consensus engine used.

Receiving a transaction broadcast in this way reaches the consensus engines of several pool nodes. Each consensus engine treats the transaction as it was encoded in the broadcasting phase, in the form of bytes with low memory usage, and passes it to applications like the Cosmos SDK via [ABCI](./99c3_tendermint_core_and_abci.md).

### 2. Adding Transactions to the Mempool (`CheckTx`)

Pool nodes validate the transactions they receive and add them to their in-memory cache, the Mempool. The process of adding a transaction to the Mempool is as follows

- [comebft] Sends ABCI message `abci.RequestCheckTx` to the application layer.
- [app] The app that receives the request from cometbft runs [`CheckTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L342-L375).
  1. if the transaction passes validation, it is [added to Mempool](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L716-L720), the in-memory cache pool that each node has.
  2. if step 1 went well, return `abci.ResponseCheckTx`.

#### Executing the `CheckTx` function

The [`runTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L611-L770) function called by the `CheckTx` function is executed in `runTxModeCheck` mode. Since consensus engines like cometbft handle transactions in [`[]byte`](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/v0.37.0/abci/types/types.pb.go#L827-L830) format, the receiving app needs to decode them. The following is a simplified version of the `CheckTx` function code:

```go
func (app *BaseApp) CheckTx(req abci.RequestCheckTx) abci.ResponseCheckTx {
    var mode runTxMode = runTxModeCheck
    
	app.runTx(mode, req.Tx)
    
	return abci.ResponseCheckTx{ ... }
}
```

#### `CheckTx` function - Execute `runTx` function

The `runTx` function called by the `CheckTx` function is executed in `runTxModeCheck` mode. When executed in this mode, it does not execute messages or change state, but only executes all validations for the transaction and exits. The reason for prioritizing transaction validation is to identify and reject invalid transactions as soon as possible to avoid wasted computation. Validation performs `Stateless` checks and then `Stateful` checks.

- `Stateless` checks: These are performed first because they are less expensive because the node does not need to access state. It can be easily performed by light clients or offline nodes that do not keep state.
  - Verify that the address is not empty
  - Enforcing non-negative numbers in transaction fields
  - Validate the data type of the transaction
- `Stateful` checks: Validates the transaction against the state currently committed to the blockchain. This is computationally intensive and somewhat expensive as it requires access to the state, but the main purpose is to minimize the waste of computational resources by pre-filtering like this, as further validation is performed during the transaction execution phase when the transaction is fully executed.
  - Ensuring that there are sufficient funds in the account
  - Verify that the sender has the necessary permissions for the transaction
  - Ensure that the transaction does not cause a state conflict

> Keeping full node state: Typically, multiple versions of state are kept for various reasons. For example, a node executes state changes during the process of verifying a transaction, but it needs a copy of the last committed state to respond to a query, so it should not respond using a state with uncommitted changes.

The [`AnteHandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/handler.go#L8) is optional. A copy of the cached context (ctx) is provided to the `AnteHandler`, which performs the checks specified by the transaction type. The advantage of this [approach](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L681-L700) is that the `AnteHandler` performs stateful checks on the transaction, but does not modify the last committed state. If the execution fails, it can be reverted to the original state. The `x/bank` module we are looking at as an example does not use this feature. So, for another example, the [`x/auth` module `AnteHandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/auth/ante/ante.go) has checks to verify and increment sequence numbers, verify signatures, and deduct fees (e.g., deduct fees from the first signer of a transaction). All state changes are made using [`checkState`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L83).

#### State after CheckTx but before settlement

The app validates transactions with CheckTx and only adds valid transactions to its Mempooll and broadcasts them to its peers. The app then waits for the list of transactions in the mempool to be included in a block. If a transaction is found to be invalid by an honest node, it can delete the previously added transaction. Prior to consensus, nodes continuously check for incoming transactions and communicate with their peers.

## 3. Transaction Life Cycle - Consensus

Once transactions have been collected in each node's mempool, the consensus process is initiated by the proposer. This process allows new transactions to be added to the blockchain network as blocks. The process typically begins with a round where a designated node (also known as the Proposer) includes the transactions in its mempool in a block. The block is then proposed to other nodes in the network (validators).

> For more details, please refer to the [Tendermint Consensus Algorithm article](./99c1_tendermint_with_bft.md).

### 1. (Proposer) Propose a Block

The first step in consensus is to propose a block. The consensus algorithm selects one of the validators to create and propose a block. Transactions must be in this proposer's Mempool to be included.

```
        -----------------------
        |Receive Block Proposal|
        -----------------------
                  |Receive Block Proposal
                  v
```

#### Run `PrepareProposal`

You can batch optimize blocks by calling the [`PrepareProposal`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L256) function before proposing a block. This has been empirically proven to be a key factor in improving performance. This is customizable and allows the block proposer to perform app-dependent operations on the block before proposing it:

- [`comebft`] Send the ABCI message `abci.RequestPrepareProposal` to the application layer.
- [`app`] The app that receives the request from `cometbft` executes `PrepareProposal`.
  > For more information about `PrepareProposal`, see [CometBFT and ABCI 2.0 article](./32.CometBFT-and-ABCI2.0.md#1-prepareproposal-method).

The following is the content of the handler function set as the default function:

1. In `PrepareProposal`, use the `prepareProposalState` state and call [`PrepareProposalHandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L946) to execute it. 2.
2. iterate over the transaction using the mempool's `Select() method`.
3. the iteration calls `runTx`, which encodes and validates each transaction by running the function [`PrepareProposalVerifyTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L864-L881), which validates it through a function like `AnteHandler`. If successful, it returns a valid transaction, including events, tags, and data generated during the execution of the proposal.

#### `ProcessProposal` Execution

When a block is proposed, by calling the [`ProcessProposal`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L309) function, the validator can perform app-dependent actions on the proposed block. Features such as immediate block execution are available, and the app can also reject invalid blocks:

- [comebft] Send ABCI message `abci.RequestPrepareProposal` to the application layer.
- [app] After receiving the request from cometbft, the app executes [`ProcessProposal`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L309).
  > For more information about `ProcessProposal`, see the [CometBFT and ABCI 2.0 article](./32.CometBFT-and-ABCI2.0.md#2-processproposal-methods).

The following is the content of the handler function set as the default function:

1. `ProcessProposal` uses `processProposalState` based on the last committed state and calls [`ProcessProposalHandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L1004) to validate and process the signed proposal. 
2. iterate over the array of transactions of type `[]byte` received from `abci.RequestProcessProposal`.
3. run the function [`ProcessProposalVerifyTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L883-L917) through the loop, which calls `runTx`, which in turn runs the `AnteHandler`.
4. the `ctx` used in this state is built with the information from the header and main state, and the minimum gas price is also set.

### 2. (Validator Node) Validating a Block

When a validator node receives a block proposal, a round-based consensus is conducted to agree on whether to accept the transactions in its mempool. All pool nodes that have received a block proposal from the correct proposer sequentially execute [`BeginBlock`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L160), [`DeliverTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L382), and [`EndBlock`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L219).

- Each round starts with the proposer generating a block of the most recent transaction and ends with the full node validators, the voting members of the consensus, agreeing on whether to accept the block or proceed with a `nil` block.
- To reach this consensus, validator nodes run the consensus algorithm adopted in CometBFT, verifying transactions through ABCI requests to the application.
- Although every full node operates individually and locally, the results are always consistent and unambiguous. This is because the state changes caused by messages are predictable and the transactions are specifically ordered in the proposed block.

```
                  |
                  v
        -----------------------
        | BeginBlock	      |
        -----------------------
                  |
                  v
        -----------------------
        | DeliverTx(tx0)      |
        | DeliverTx(tx1)      |
        | DeliverTx(tx2)      |
        | DeliverTx(tx3)      |
        |			.	      |
        |			.	      |
        |			.	      |
        -----------------------
                  |
                  v
        -----------------------
        | EndBlock	     	  |
        -----------------------
                  |
                  v
        -----------------------
        | Consensus	     	  |
        -----------------------
                  |
                  v
```

In EVMs, developers have to trigger actions off-chain to perform events after submitting transactions, but in Cosmos with Tendermint, you can develop using event listeners that are automatically called before and after simple transaction execution using `BeginBlock` and `EndBlock`. The advantage is that these actions are not dependent on transactions to be triggered, so they don't cause congestion.

#### Run `BeginBlock`

[`BeginBlock`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L160) is called exactly once after the block is determined.

- [comebft] Sends the ABCI message `abci.RequestBeginBlock` to the application layer.
- [app] The app that received the request from cometbft executes `BeginBlock`.

A `deliverState` is set in advance for the `DeliverTx` ABCI message. The `deliverState` is set based on the last committed state in the root repository.
The app then runs the pre-registered `beginBlocker` function. Note that on `Commit`, `deliverState` is set to `nil`. Here is a simplified version of the code for the `BeginBlock` function:

```go
func (app *BaseApp) BeginBlock(req abci.RequestBeginBlock) (res abci.ResponseBeginBlock) {
	app.validateHeight(req);

	if app.deliverState == nil {
		app.setState(runTxModeDeliver, req.Header)
	} else {
		app.deliverState.ctx = app.deliverState.ctx.
			WithBlockHeader(req.Header).
			WithBlockHeight(req.Header.Height)
	}

	res = app.beginBlocker(app.deliverState.ctx, req)

	return res
}
```

#### Run `DeliverTx`

After `BeginBlock` completes, [`DeliverTx`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L377-L414) is called once for each transaction in the block.

- [comebft] Send the ABCI message `abci.RequestDeliverTx` to the application layer.
- [app] After receiving the request from cometbft, the app executes `DeliverTx`.

The app defines additional checks to validate (for example, it can check that the key does not already exist in the Key-Value store). Even if a transaction does not pass the checks in `DeliverTx`, it becomes part of the block because it has already been voted on, unlike `CheckTx`, which rejects such transactions. The response returned by `DeliverTx` is included in the header of the next block. The following is a simplified version of the `DeliverTx` function's numeric code:

```go
func (app *BaseApp) DeliverTx(req abci.RequestDeliverTx) (res abci.ResponseDeliverTx) {
	app.runTx(runTxModeDeliver, req.Tx)

	return abci.ResponseDeliverTx{ ... }
}
```

#### `DeliverTx` - Calling the `runTx` function

The `runTx` function called by the `DeliverTx` function is executed in `runTxModeDeliver` mode. As with `CheckTx`, state transitions occur in `deliverState`. The following describes the contents of the `runTx` function:

1. If an `AnteHandler` is defined, it is executed to perform the basic state transition of the transaction.
   - Performs basic validation of the transaction and makes any necessary state transitions.
   - Once the `AnteHandler` has finished executing, commit the `MultiStore` cache to make the state transitions permanent.
2. run transaction messages ([`runMsgs`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L737)).

- 1. each message is routed to the appropriate module through `BaseApp` using [`MsgServiceRouter`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/msg_service_router.go).
- 2. the `BaseApp` decodes each message in the transaction. Each module has its own [`MsgService`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.47/build/building-modules/msg-services) that processes each message received.
     > You can create your own MsgService, but the recommended approach is to define a Protobuf `MsgService`. Each module has exactly one Protobuf `MsgService` defined in `tx.proto`, with RPC service methods for each message type in the module.

These messages return results in one of two cases:

- If the message execution succeeds, it calls `msCache.Write()` to commit the `deliverState`.
- Note that even if the message execution fails, the state transitions of the `AnteHandler` (gas consumption, fee payment, etc.) are not rolled back because they have already been committed.

#### Run `EndBlock`

After all transactions have been processed through `DeliverTx`, [`EndBlock`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L219) is executed. It notifies the app that no other transactions will be delivered as part of the current block and requests changes to the validator set (ValidatorUpdates) and consensus parameters (ConsensusParamUpdates) to be used in the next block.

### 3. Permanently changing the state (Commit)

The final step is for the node to `Commit` the block and state changes. Validator nodes perform the previous steps of executing state transitions to validate the transaction and then sign the block to confirm it. Non-validator full nodes do not participate in the consensus and cannot vote, but wait for a vote to determine whether to `Commit` the state change.

- If it receives enough validator votes (at least 2/3 precommits weighted by voting power), the full node commits to the new block that will be added to the blockchain and finalizes the state transition at the app layer.
  - A new app StateRoot is created to act as a Merkle proof of state transition.
- The application synchronizes all state transitions by writing a `deliverState` to the application's internal state using the `Commit` ABCI method inherited from `Baseapp`.
- As soon as a state change is committed, `checkState` is restarted from the most recently committed state, and `deliverState` is reset to 0 to maintain consistency and reflect the change.

```
                  |
                  v
        -----------------------
        | Commit	     	  |
        -----------------------
```

#### Run `Commit`

[`Commit`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L416-L483) commits to a new block to be added to the blockchain, finalizes the state transition at the app layer, and is considered the final state.

- Upon receiving a [comebft] precommit of 2/3 or more, the full node sends a commit request to the app layer.
- [app] The app that received the commit request from cometbft executes `Commit`.

All state transitions that occurred in `deliverState` by the `Commit` function are finally written to the root `CommitMultiStore`. This is permanently written to disk and creates a new app state root hash. Finally, `checkState` is set to the newly committed state and `deliverState` is set to `nil` and reset in `BeginBlock`. The following is a simplified version of the `Commit` function:

```go
func (app *BaseApp) Commit() abci.ResponseCommit {
	header := app.deliverState.ctx.BlockHeader()

	// commit
	app.deliverState.ms.Write()
	commitID := app.cms.Commit()

	// state reset
	app.setState(runTxModeCheck, header)
	emptyHeader := tmproto.Header{ChainID: app.chainID}
	app.setState(runTxPrepareProposal, emptyHeader)
	app.setState(runTxProcessProposal, emptyHeader)
	app.deliverState = nil

	return abci.ResponseCommit{
		Data:         commitID.Hash,
		RetainHeight: retainHeight,
	}
}
```

Exceptions include

- Not all blocks have the same number of transactions, and blocks can be zero or `nil` blocks by consensus.
- In a public blockchain network, validators may be Byzantine or malicious, which may prevent the blockchain from verifying `Tx`.
- Possible malicious behavior includes a proponent deciding to censor by excluding `Tx` from the block, or a validator voting against the block.

At this point, the node validated `Tx` and executed a state change to forward the transaction and commit the changes. The transaction itself is stored in a block in the form of a `[]byte` and added to the blockchain.

## v0.50.x and later updates

### 1. Tx Msg

[RFC 001](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/rfc/rfc-001-tx-validation) defined a simplification of the Message validation process for modules.

- The `sdk.Msg` interface has been updated so that the `ValidateBasic` method does not need to be implemented, as [`GetSigners`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/11275) has been deprecated. Instead, it is recommended to validate messages directly on the `msgServer`. The `ValidateBasic` method in `sdk.Msg` is no longer needed and can be removed by performing [`Validate`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/x/staking/keeper/msg_server.go#L42-L44) inside `msgServer`, as shown in the following `x/staking` module.
- `Msg` is no longer required to implement the `LegacyMsg` interface and the implementation of `GetSignBytes` can be deleted. This change also makes it safe to remove the global legacy Amino codec definition and registration of init().

The transaction interface used in v0.50.7 is as follows
[v0.50.7/tx_msg.go#L51-L57](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.7/types/tx_msg.go#L51-L57)

```go
type (
	Msg = proto.Message
	// v0.47.
	LegacyMsg interface {
		Msg
		GetSigners() []AccAddress
	}

	HasMsgs interface {
		GetMsgs() []Msg
	}

	Tx interface {
		HasMsgs
		GetMsgsV2() ([]protov2.Message, error)
	}
)
```

### 2. FinalizeBlock

[`FinalizeBlock`](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.38/guides/go#133-finalizeblock) is an ABCI method introduced in CometBFT v0.38.0. It provides a consolidation of `BeginBlock`, `DeliverTx`, and `EndBlock`, which we discussed above. Instead of calling each of these functions, it is reduced to a single call to the `FinalizeBlock` function.

> For more information about `FinalizeBlock`, see the [CometBFT and ABCI 2.0 article](./32.CometBFT-and-ABCI2.0.md).

# Resources

- https://docs.cosmos.network/main/
- https://docs.cometbft.com/
- https://ida.interchain.io/academy/2-cosmos-concepts/3-transactions.html
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/learn/beginner/01-tx-lifecycle.md
- Ethan Buchman, "Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of Blockchains", Juen. 2016, https://atrium.lib.uoguelph.ca/items/5459099e-67aa-4a23-83ae-d3471d8d8336
