# Gas fees
> Since Tendermint [migrated to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) from cosmos-sdk v0.47, the article is based on cosmos-sdk v0.47, cometbft v0.38. 

## 0. Gas fee 
In the Cosmos SDK, `gas` is a special unit used to track resource consumption during execution. A `gas` is typically consumed whenever a read or write is performed to the Store, but it can also be consumed whenever an expensive operation needs to be performed. `gas` is used for two main purposes
- To ensure that a block is finalized without consuming too many resources. 
    - This is implemented by default in the Cosmos SDK via the block [`GasMeter`] (./12_gas_fees.md#1-gas-meter).
- Prevent spam and abuse by end users. 
    - To do this, the gas consumed during message execution is typically priced and a fee is charged: `(fee = gas * gasPrices)`. 
    - The fee is usually paid by the message sender. 

The Cosmos SDK does not enforce gas pricing by default, as there may be other ways to prevent spam (e.g. bandwidth schemes), but most apps use the `AnteHandler` to implement a `fee` mechanism to prevent spam.

## 1. Gas Meter
In the Cosmos SDK, `gas` is a simple alias for uint64, and is managed by objects that implement the `GasMeter` interface.
```go
// GasMeter interface to track gas consumption
type GasMeter interface {
	GasConsumed() Gas
	GasConsumedToLimit() Gas
	GasRemaining() Gas
	Limit() Gas
	ConsumeGas(amount Gas, descriptor string)
	RefundGas(amount Gas, descriptor string)
	IsPastLimit() bool
	IsOutOfGas() bool
	String() string
}
```

### Main Gas Meter
`ctx.GasMeter()` is the application's `Main GasMeter`. 
- It tracks gas consumption by an execution sequence [`BeginBlock` -> `DeliverTx` -> `EndBlock`] that is initialized in a `BeginBlock` via `setDeliverState` and then followed by a state transition.
- At the start of each `DeliverTx`, the `Main GasMeter` should be set to 0 in the `AnteHandler` to track the gas consumption per transaction.

#### Automatic Gas Consumption
In most cases, this is done automatically whenever there is a read/write to the store. This automatic gas consumption logic is implemented in a special store called [`GasKv`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.50.0-alpha.0/store/gaskv/store.go).

#### Manual Gas Consumption
Manual gas consumption is performed by each module of the app through the `BeginBlocker`, `EndBlocker`, or `Msg` services.


### Block Gas Meter
[`ctx.BlockGasMeter()`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/context.go#L59) is a gas tracker used to track gas consumption per block and ensure that it does not exceed certain limits. During the genesis phase, it [sets](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L81-L82) that GAS consumption is unlimited to accommodate initialization transactions:
```go
app.deliverState.ctx = app.deliverState.ctx.WithBlockGasMeter(sdk.NewInfiniteGasMeter())
```

The following is a mechanism to set the block `GasMeter` to a finite limit based on the block's consensus parameters when running [`BeginBlock`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/abci.go#L188-L193). This prevents excessive gas fees from being charged in advance:
```go
gasMeter := app.getBlockGasMeter(app.deliverState.ctx)
app.deliverState.ctx = app.deliverState.ctx.
		WithBlockGasMeter(gasMeter).
		WithHeaderHash(req.Hash).
		WithConsensusParams(app.GetConsensusParams(app.deliverState.ctx))
```

Modules within the Cosmos SDK can utilize `ctx` to consume block gas at any time during execution. This gas consumption mainly occurs during state read/write operations and transaction processing. When processing a transaction by running the `DeliverTx` function, the following happens: 
- Before executing the transaction, the total gas usage is monitored with `ctx.BlockGasMeter()`, and if the gas is low, the transaction is returned immediately without executing.  
- If the transaction runs normally, it checks to see if the current value of the block `GasMeter` exceeds the limit. 

The following is the function [capitalization code](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/baseapp/baseapp.go#L641-L663) for `runTx`:
```go
if mode == runTxModeDeliver && ctx.BlockGasMeter().IsOutOfGas() {
	return gInfo, nil, nil, 0, sdkerrors.Wrap(sdkerrors.ErrOutOfGas, "no block gas left to run tx")
}

ctx.BlockGasMeter().ConsumeGas(
	ctx.GasMeter().GasConsumedToLimit(), "block gas meter",
)
```

## 2. AnteHandler
As you learned in [`10_transaction_and_mempool`](./10_transaction_and_mempool.md), the `AnteHandler` prioritizes the execution of the Protobuf `Msg` service functions for each `sdk.Msg` when the app receives transaction-related requests such as `CheckTx`, `BeginBlock`, `DeliverTx`, and `EndBlock` to perform validation. 

# Resources
- https://docs.cosmos.network/main/
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/learn/beginner/04-gas-fees.md