# gRPC, REST, CometBFT RPC
> Since Tendermint [migrated to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) from cosmos-sdk v0.47, the article is based on cosmos-sdk v0.47, cometbft v0.38. 

## 0. IPC in Cosmos SDK
In a blockchain node, communication between nodes is maintained through [IPC mechanisms such as REST and RPC](./14_rpc_basic.md#0-ipcinter-process-communication) in a client-server architecture. Although each node is an independent process, efficient inter-process communication between them maintains blockchain network consistency and continuous state synchronization, making blockchain a trusted system in a distributed environment. 
> By default, when discussing client and server in Cosmos-related articles, the server refers to the Cosmos SDK application, and the client refers to the consensus engine (ex. CometBFT) that interacts with it. This can be better understood by looking at [Client-Server Structure in the ABCI article](./99c3_tendermint_core_and_abci.md#2-abci-client-server-structure).

Each Cosmos SDK node exposes the following endpoints for users to interact with the node 
- gRPC server (default port: `9090`)
- REST server (default port: `1317`)
- Cometbft RPC endpoint (default port: `26657`)

## 1. gRPC Server 
In the Cosmos SDK, Protobuf is the default encoding library, which makes it possible to use tools like gRPC, which is based on Protobuf. Each module uses a `gRPC service` (query service) that defines a status query. The query service and the transaction service used for [transaction broadcasting](./10_transaction_and_mempool.md#transaction-broadcasting) connect to the [gRPC server](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/server/types/app.go#L46-L48) via the following functions
```go
// RegisterGRPCServer registers gRPC services directly with the gRPC
// server.
RegisterGRPCServer(grpc.Server)
```

The `grpc.Server` is the gRPC server that handles all gRPC query requests and transaction broadcast requests. This server can be set in `~/.simapp/config/app.toml`:
- The `grpc.enable = true|false` field defines whether the gRPC server is enabled or not. The default value is `true`.
- The `grpc.address = {string}` field defines the ip:port to which the server will bind. The default is `localhost:9090`.
> `~/.simapp` is the directory where the default Cosmos SDK node's settings and database are stored. By default, it is set to `~/.{app_name}`.

## 2. REST Server
There are many reasons why you might not be able to use gRPC. (For example, if you are building a web application and your browser does not support HTTP2, on which gRPC is built), the Cosmos SDK provides REST routes via [gRPC gateway](./14_rpc_basic.md#3-3-grpc-gateway). All routes can be configured in `~/.simapp/config/app.toml`:
- The `api.enable = true|false` field defines whether to enable the REST server. The default value is false.
- The `api.address = {string}` field defines the ip:port to which the server will bind. The default value is `tcp://localhost:1317`.

Some additional API configuration options are defined with comments in `~/.simapp/config/app.toml`, so you can refer to that file directly.

### Example of using gRPC-gateway
For each gRPC endpoint defined in the Protobuf query service, the Cosmos SDK provides a corresponding REST equivalent. For example, a balance query can be performed via the `/cosmos.bank.v1beta1.QueryAllBalances` gRPC endpoint or via the `/cosmos/bank/v1beta1/balances/{address}` gRPC gateway. Both REST endpoints return the same result. For each RPC method defined in the Protobuf Query Service, a corresponding REST Endpoint is defined as an option. The following is an example of the option settings for the [Balance RPC method](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/proto/cosmos/bank/v1beta1/query.proto#L23-L30):
```proto
rpc AllBalances(QueryAllBalancesRequest) returns (QueryAllBalancesResponse) {
  option (cosmos.query.v1.module_query_safe) = true;
  option (google.api.http).get               = "/cosmos/bank/v1beta1/balances/{address}";
}
```

For app developers, you need to connect the REST route set by gRPC-gateway to the REST server, which is done by calling the [RegisterGRPCGatewayRoutes function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/types/module/module.go#L56) in ModuleManager.

## 3. ComettBFT RPC
Apart from the Cosmos SDK, the RPC server of the consensus engine CometBFT is also publicly available. This RPC server can be configured by adjusting the parameters under the rpc table in `~/.simapp/config/config.toml`, and the default listening address is `tcp://localhost:26657`. 
- [CometBFT RPC Endpoint Docs](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/rpc/)

The CometBFT RPC Endpoint is largely related to the Cosmos SDK: 
- [`/abci_query`](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/rpc/#/ABCI/abci_query): Queries the status of a Cosmos SDK app. The following string can be sent as the `path` parameter:
    - The official service method of Cosmos bank (e.g. `/cosmos.bank.v1beta1.Query/AllBalances`). The data field should then contain the request parameters of the method encoded in bytes using Protobuf.
    - `/app/simulate`: Simulates a transaction and returns some information, such as the gas used.
    - `/app/version`: Returns the version of the application.
    - `/store/{storeName}/key`: Query the named store directly for data related to the key indicated in the data parameter.
    - store/{storeName}/subspace`: Query the named store directly for key/value pairs prefixed with the value of the data parameter.
    - `/p2p/filter/addr/{port}`: Returns a filtered list of a node's P2P peers by address port.
    - `/p2p/filter/id/{id}`: Returns a list of the node's P2P peers filtered by id.
- `/broadcast_tx_`{[sync](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/rpc/#/Tx/broadcast_tx_sync), [async](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/rpc/#/Tx/broadcast_tx_async), [commit](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/rpc/#/Tx/broadcast_tx_commit)}: These three endpoints broadcast transactions to other peers. All of the [CLI, gRPC, and REST](./10_transaction_and_mempool.md#Transaction-Broadcasting) methods we've seen for broadcasting transactions are using these three CometBFT RPCs internally.


# Resources
- https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.47/learn/advanced/grpc_rest
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/learn/advanced/06-grpc_rest.md