# Cosmos Basic Modules
> Since Tendermint [migrated to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) from cosmos-sdk v0.47, the article is based on cosmos-sdk v0.47, cometbft v0.38. 

## 0. How the module came to be 
Building on [some of the background covered in step1](./01.%EC%BD%94%EC%8A%A4%EB%AA%A8%EC%8A%A4%EC%99%80-%EC%95%B1%EC%B2%B4%EC%9D%B8%EC%9D%98-%EC%B6%9C%ED%98%84-%EB%B0%B0%EA%B2%BD.md), the creation of Ethereum broke new ground in blockchain technology. At its core, Ethereum is a Turing-complete Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) design that allows programs to run on top of a decentralized blockchain network. These programs are agreed upon, verified, and registered by the network, and we call them smart contracts. Smart contracts are characterized by their decentralized nature and the fact that anyone can access and execute their program code. This accessibility increases the transparency and trustworthiness of the blockchain. However, this also presents some challenges:
- The first is the scalability of the network. The Ethereum network is single-threaded with many people participating, which slows down transaction processing. This means that the network is under a lot of pressure.
- The second problem is the repetitive code uploads of programs with similar functionality. With existing smart contracts, there was a problem of sharing or giving away storage permissions, which led to developers repeatedly writing new smart contracts that did the same thing.

Nonetheless, it's the thriving ecosystem that attracts many developers and users to the Ethereum network. There's a lot more that can be done on a network with a wide variety of apps interacting with each other. For example
- DEX (Decentralized Exchange) contracts can use the money deposit and withdrawal functions of Bank contracts.
- Bank contracts can make requests to Token contracts to send money.

The Cosmos SDK, called App Chain, is designed to overcome these issues by allowing a single application to run on a single blockchain. The Cosmos ecosystem allows multiple chains to communicate with each other thanks to the Tendermint consensus engine, which in turn allows for performance improvements and optimizations. In addition, we provide various modules that implement the basic functions required by the blockchain, so that you don't have to reinvent the wheel when creating a chain, and you can securely manage storage. These features have the following advantages
- [object-capabilities](./12.%EC%8A%A4%ED%86%A0%EC%96%B4%EC%99%80-%ED%82%A4%ED%8D%BC.md) feature allows you to securely manage the storage of each module, so you can be safe from the introduction of unknown modules.
- The pre-built modules make it easy to build functions like auth and bank without the need for smart contract development.
- They also have the advantage of being written in Golang, which provides a simple syntax.

This doesn't mean you can't build contract code in the Cosmos SDK. There is already a large ecosystem for building smart contract dApps, and for those who are familiar with it, there is [cosmwasm](https://cosmwasm.com/), which uses rust, or [ethermint](https://docs.ethermint.zone/), which provides EVM compatibility. As such, the Cosmos SDK is focused on building a robust ecosystem of blockchain applications that complement Ethereum's limitations. This enables developers to develop various blockchain applications in a more efficient and secure environment.

## 1. Module Concept
When a transaction is relayed from the consensus engine (CometBFT), the `baseapp` decodes the messages contained in the transaction and routes them to the appropriate module. When the appropriate module message handler receives it, state-related functions are executed. You can think of the core as handling infrastructure-related functions and the modules as implementing the application business logic. The key concepts behind these modules are 
- A module is a state machine within a larger state machine (`baseapp`). 
- The core layout of a module is states, state lookups, and state transitions. 

A module defines its state through a `KVStore` store. The [store management](./12.%EC%8A%A4%ED%86%A0%EC%96%B4%EC%99%80-%ED%82%A4%ED%8D%BC.md) manages permissions to access the store to read and write state by providing the storeKey to the keeper when initializing from `baseapp`. So, to create new functionality, we just need to design a message type like Protobuf and the logic to manage its state. 

To implement these features, the module contains the following functions
- [Server and Interface](./16_grpc_and_rest_and_cometbft_rpc.md) to interact with nodes.
- A repository to manage module state, called [Multistore](./12.%EC%8A%A4%ED%86%A0%EC%96%B4%EC%99%80-%ED%82%A4%ED%8D%BC.md)
- An implementation of [ABCI](./31.%ED%85%90%EB%8D%94%EB%AF%BC%ED%8A%B8-%EC%BD%94%EC%96%B4%EC%99%80-ABCI.md) that communicates with CometBFT. 

Modules also define interactions with other modules that already exist. Most of the work for a developer building a Cosmos SDK app is building the custom modules required for the application and integrating them with the modules that already exist to form a coherent application. Existing modules can be provided by the Cosmos SDK itself, or you can use other app modules that have already been built. 

## 2. Types of Modules 
The following modules are provided by default in the Cosmos SDK:
- [Auth](./21_module_auth.md): Cosmos SDK account and transaction authentication (Authentication) functionality. 
   - Vesting: Vesting account implementation (v0.51.0 deprecated).
- [Bank](./22_module_bank.md): Token transfer functionality
- [Feegrant](./23_module_feegrant.md): Granting fee allowance for transaction execution
- [Authz](./24_module_authz.md):  Authorization capabilities for accounts to perform actions on behalf of other accounts 
- [Governance](./25_module_gov.md): On-chain proposals and voting
- [Staking](./26_module_staking.md): Proof-of-Stake layer for public blockchains
- [Slashing](./27_module_slashing.md): A validator punishment mechanism (PoS)
- [Mint](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/mint/README.md): Creates new units of staking tokens
- [Params](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/params/README.md): Globally available parameter repository
- [Capability](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/capability/README.md): Implementation of [object-capabilities](./13_store_and_keepers.md#object-capabilities-model)
- [Crisis](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/crisis/README.md): Ability to halt the blockchain in certain crisis situations. 
- [Distribution](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/distribution/README.md): Distribution of fees and staking token offerings
- [Evidence](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/evidence/README.md): Handling evidence for double signatures, misbehavior, etc.
- [Upgrade](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/upgrade/README.md): Functions related to software upgrades 
- [NFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/nft/README.md): NFT functionality implemented based on [ADR43](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/architecture/adr-043-nft-module.html)
- [Consensus](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/x/consensus/README.md): Module for modifying Tendermint's ABCI consensus parameters


## Resource
- https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/building-modules/intro
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/v0.47.0/x
- Juwoon Yoon, [Cosmos Academy] About the Cosmos SDK, Youtube, uploaded by Lunamint, Oct. 12, 2018, https://youtu.be/ZD7xk1SfdBw
