# Slashing module

## 0. `slashing` module
The `slashing` module acts as a deterrent to non-compliant actors by imposing economic penalties on them. These economic penalties include burning a certain amount of staking and removing the ability to vote on blocks for a period of time. This module is used by the Cosmos Hub, the first hub of the Cosmos network.

### State
There can be any number of validators registered in the state machine at any time. 
- In each block, the top `MaxValidator` (defined in `x/staking`) validator can propose and vote on blocks with deposits. 
- If a validator with a deposit commits a protocol error, their stake and some or all of their delegates' stakes are at risk. 
- For each such validator, a `ValidatorSigningInfo` record is kept that contains the validator's survival status and other violation-related attributes. 

### Tombstone Cap
To mitigate the impact of non-malicious protocol errors that may initially occur, Cosmos Hub implements a tombstone cap for each validator that slashes the validator only once for a double signature error. For example, if you misconfigure your Hardware Security Module (HSM), the device that securely manages your cryptographic keys, to double-sign multiple stale blocks, you will only be penalized for the first double-signature and will be immediately tombstoned. While still costly and preferably avoided, the tombstone cap blunts the economic impact of unintentional misconfigurations to some extent.

The tombstone concept only applies to faults where there is a delay between when the violation occurs and evidence reaching the state machine. 
Liveness flaws cannot be stacked on top of each other, so there is no upper bound, because they are detected as soon as they occur and the verifier is immediately thrown in jail, so it is not possible to commit multiple liveness flaws without being released from jail in the middle. 

### Infraction Timelines
To illustrate how the `x/slashing` module handles evidence submitted via CometBFT consensus, consider the following example:
- $[$ : timeline start
- $]$ : timeline end
- $C_n$ : infraction n committed
- $D_n$ : infraction n discovered
- $V_b$ : validator bonded
- $V_u$ : validator unbonded

#### 1. Single double signature violation
```
[----------C1----D1,Vu-----]
```
If a single violation occurs and is later discovered, the validator is unbonded and the full amount of the violation is removed.

#### 2. Multiple double signature violations
```
[----------C1--C2---C3---D1,D2,D3Vu-----]
```
If a validator commits multiple violations and is later discovered, they are jailed and removed for only one violation. The validator is tombstoned and cannot rejoin the validator set.

## 1. Staking Tombstone
In the current implementation of the `slashing` module, when the consensus engine notifies the state machine of a consensus flaw in a verifier, the verifier is partially slashed and placed in a jail period, a period of time during which it cannot rejoin the set of verifiers. However, due to the nature of consensus faults and ABCI, there can be a delay between a violation occurring and evidence of the violation reaching the state machine (this is one of the main reasons UnbondingPeriod exists).

In the current system design, a verifier can be jailed due to a consensus flaw and then, after the jail period, can send an `unjail` transaction to unjail itself and rejoin the verifier set. 

### Multiple violations at once: the slashing period
The `slashing` module values the ability to punish a verifier for only the worst violation, rather than cumulative punishment, if multiple violations occur before the proof is executed and the verifier is jailed. For example, in the following cases
1. Validator A commits 위반 1 (worth 30% slash)
2. Validator A commits 위반 2 (worth 40% slash)
3. Validator A commits 위반 3 (worth 35% slash)
4. Evidence for 위반 1 reaches state machine (and validator is put in jail)
5. Evidence for 위반 2 reaches state machine
6. Evidence for 위반 3 reaches state machine

This can happen when a hacker double-signs multiple blocks if the validator's consensus key is compromised. In such cases, the slash is only applied to the highest offense, 'Violation 2', to ensure that only one penalty is applied. This is because jailbreaking must be done with the validator's operator key, so the validator has the opportunity to regain the consensus key and then signal that it is ready using the operator key. This period of only tracking maximum violations is called the slashing period.

### When a violation that has already been punished is reported again 
When a validator `unjail` themselves and rejoins, a new slashing period begins, and any new violations committed after unjailing are cumulatively slashed in addition to the worst violations from the previous slashing period. 

Offenses are grouped by slashing period. However, if a reporter submits evidence up to the un-slashing period, they may be double punished for an offense that they have already been punished for, so they should be allowed to submit evidence for previously covered slashing periods. For example, if
1. Validator A commits violation 1 (worth 30% slash)
2. Validator A commits violation 2 (worth 40% slash)
3. Evidence for violation 1 reaches state machine (and Validator A is put in jail)
4. Validator A unjails

Now we are in a new slashing period, but evidence for 'violation 2' can still come in, so we need to keep the door open for the previous violation. As the number of slashing periods increases, it becomes more complicated because you need to track the highest violation amount for each slashing period.

The maximum value for the slashing period is `len(UnbondingPeriod) / len(JailPeriod)`. Currently, Gaia's default values for `UnbondingPeriod` and `JailPeriod` are 3 weeks and 2 days, respectively. 
- This means that up to 11 slashing periods per validator can be tracked simultaneously. 
- By setting `JailPeriod >= UnbondingPeriod`, only one slashing period needs to be tracked (i.e., no slashing periods need to be tracked).

In the current implementation of jail periods, when a validator breaks jail, all delegates delegated to that validator (who have not unbonded/redelegated) stay with that validator. 

Given that the consensus safety flaw is very serious (much more serious than the liveness flaw), it would be prudent to prevent delegators from “auto-re-delegating” to validators.

#### Proposal: infinite jail
We propose to set the “jail time” of a validator that commits a consensus flaw to infinity (i.e., tombstone status). This would kick the validator out of the validator set and prevent them from re-entering the validator set. This forces all delegators, including the validator itself, to either de-delegate or redelegate. The validator operator can create a new validator with a new operator key and consensus key if they wish, but they must be newly redelegated. 

Implementing the tombstone system and removing the slashing duration tracking makes the slashing module much simpler, especially since we can remove all hooks defined in the `slashing` module that are consumed by the `staking` module.

#### Single slashing amount
Another optimization we can make is that we don't need to keep track of the “maximum slash” if we assume that all ABCI faults for CometBFT consensus are slashed at the same level. Once an ABCI error occurs, you don't have to worry about comparing potential future errors to find the maximum.

This is currently the only CometBFT ABCI flaw: 
- Unjustified precommit (double signature).

We are currently planning to include the following flaws in the near future
- Signing precommit when in unbonding phase (needed to make light client splitting safe)

Since these flaws are all due to Byzantine flaws, we'll want to cut them equally, so we can apply the above changes.

## 1. Status.
### 1.Signing Info (Liveness)
Every block contains a set of the verifier's precommits for the previous block, which is called `LastCommitInfo` provided by CometBFT. The `LastCommitInfo` is valid as long as it contains precommits from at least 2/3 of the total voting power.
```go
type LastCommitInfo struct {  
	Round int32  
	Votes []VoteInfo  
}
```

If a validator fails to be included in the `LastCommitInfo` for a certain number of blocks, they will be penalized with automatic incarceration, potential slashing, and de-deposit. 

Information about a validator's livenss activity is tracked via [`ValidatorSigningInfo`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/proto/cosmos/slashing/v1beta1/slashing.proto#L13-L36). 
```protobuf
message ValidatorSigningInfo {  
	option (gogoproto.equal) = true;  
	option (gogoproto.goproto_stringer) = false;  
	  
	string address = 1 [(cosmos_proto.scalar) = "cosmos.AddressString"];  
	int64 start_height = 2;  
	int64 index_offset = 3;  
	google.protobuf.Timestamp jailed_until = 4  
	[(gogoproto.stdtime) = true, (gogoproto.nullable) = false, (amino.dont_omitempty) = true];  
	
	bool tombstoned = 5;  
	 
	int64 missed_blocks_counter = 6;  
	}
```

### 2. Params
The `slashing` module stores [`Params`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.0/proto/cosmos/slashing/v1beta1/slashing.proto#L37-L59) with a prefix of `0x00`, which can be updated with a governance or privileged address.
```protobuf
message Params {  
	option (amino.name) = "cosmos-sdk/x/slashing/Params";  
	  
	int64 signed_blocks_window = 1;  
	bytes min_signed_per_window = 2 [  
	(gogoproto.customtype) = "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types.Dec",  
	(gogoproto.nullable) = false,  
	(amino.dont_omitempty) = true  
	];  
	google.protobuf.Duration downtime_jail_duration = 3  
	[(gogoproto.nullable) = false, (amino.dont_omitempty) = true, (gogoproto.stdduration) = true];  
	bytes slash_fraction_double_sign = 4 [  
	(gogoproto.customtype) = "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types.Dec",  
	(gogoproto.nullable) = false,  
	(amino.dont_omitempty) = true  
	];  
	bytes slash_fraction_downtime = 5 [  
	(gogoproto.customtype) = "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types.Dec",  
	(gogoproto.nullable) = false,  
	(amino.dont_omitempty) = true  
	];  
}
```

## 3. Status Lookups
Here's a quick list of what status information is retrieved by the `slashing` module:
1. params: [cli](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/main/x/slashing#params-1)
2. get signing-info: [cli](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/main/x/slashing#signing-info)
3. get all signing-info: [cli](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/main/x/slashing#signing-infos)

## 4. State Transitions
Let's briefly list what state transitions the `slashing` module causes:
1. unjail: [tx](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/main/x/slashing#unjail-1)



## Resources
- https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/staking