# PBFT and PoW consensus algorithm

## 0. Safety and Liveness 
The properties that consensus algorithms used in distributed systems need in order to be consistent and accepted by the network are called safety and liveness:
- Safety is the property that bad things should not happen. The consensus result should be consistent and unchanging for everyone. This is the same concept as finality in blockchain.
- Liveness is the property that good things should happen. Consensus must be achieved within the blockchain asynchronous network.

### FLP Impossibility
So, is there a consensus algorithm that satisfies both Safety and Liveness? In the 1985 paper 'Impossibility of Distributed Consensus with One Faulty Process', we derive the FLP Impossibility result. FLP stands for the initials of the paper's authors. The proof is a recursive method that works as follows:
- Assume that a complete consensus satisfying both Safety and Liveness can be achieved in the presence of a single faulty node, and then derive a contradiction to this.
- When you have a state machine that permanently switches states based on the messages it receives, you don't know whether the delay in receiving messages is due to network latency or failure. So it keeps changing state and never reaches a consensus, leading to infinite execution.
- Therefore, the assumption that a perfect consensus satisfying both Safety and Liveness can be achieved in the presence of a single faulty node is contradicted.
- Thus, we can see that it is impossible to design a consensus algorithm that satisfies both Safety and Liveness in an asynchronous network.

This proof implies that designing a consensus algorithm in a distributed system like blockchain, which is composed of asynchronous networks, requires a tradeoff between safety and liveness. It's like a tug-of-war trying to achieve two opposing goals at the same time. Getting this balance right is one of the key challenges for consensus algorithms in distributed systems.

## 1. PBFT (Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance)
Proposed in 1999, the PBFT algorithm solves the Byzantine General Problem, which is a practical adaptation of the BFT algorithm. It is currently used as a consensus method in many distributed systems because it solves the problem of uncertain communication between asynchronous networks to a certain extent and secures deterministic safety. In this paper, we describe how we solved the problem through the view change protocol, the three-phase protocol, and the majority consensus system. 
- Safety: The three-phase protocol (Pre-Prepare, Prepare, Commit) and the 2/3 majority consensus system provide safety guarantees that the correct consensus can be reached even in the worst Byzantine situations.
- Liveness: Features like the View Change Protocol ensure liveness by ensuring consensus and normal behavior despite network latency and node failures. However, liveness cannot be fully guaranteed in the face of long delays, so liveness is a tradeoff.

However, it has the disadvantage of requiring high network communication through several levels of voting, so the amount of communication increases rapidly as nodes are added, which is not suitable for a blockchain that anyone can participate in. In addition, the mainstream of distributed systems was operated by a centralized group, so it was difficult to be adopted and used in other fields, so it was rarely used in practice. 


### Minimum number of nodes required for consensus: 3f+1 
Optimal resilience requires at least 3f+1 nodes to maintain safety and liveness in an asynchronous system. f is the minimum number of replicas needed to handle faulty replicas. This is also the minimum number of validators in the Tendermint consensus. There are two possible failures in Byzantine situations
1. $f_1$: A faulty node that doesn't send a message
2. $f_2$: A Byzantine node that maliciously sends the wrong message.

Let $f$ be the number of faulty nodes that contain both of these cases ($f_1$, $f_2$). Given that the total number of nodes is $n$, we need to calculate the minimum number of nodes required for a healthy consensus: 
- Number of healthy nodes: $n - f$.
- Since there must be more healthy nodes than faulty nodes, we need $n - f > f$, i.e., $n > 2f$. 
- The number of healthy nodes must be greater than the number of nodes sending malicious messages, so $n - f > f$, i.e., $n > 3f$. 

Therefore, the total number of nodes required for a healthy consensus is $n > 3f$, so at least $3f + 1$ nodes are required. In this case, the maximum number of faulty nodes is $f$.

## 2. PoW (Proof of Work)
The document “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”, published by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008, contains some interesting details. It was a blueprint for a peer-to-peer electronic money system, and the consensus algorithm he proposed balanced safety and liveness in a different way than traditional consensus algorithms.

Previously, centralized systems were often self-sustaining to achieve a specific purpose, so they only had to worry about survivability issues caused by failures or glitches in an asynchronous network environment. With the advent of Bitcoin, however, the Byzantine General problem has gone from theoretical to practical.

In a decentralized distributed ledger system like Bitcoin, anyone can participate, but at the same time, not everyone can participate, and we need to think about how to ensure the honesty of the participants.
- (Decentralization) Anyone can participate, but not everyone can be a participant
- (High trust) Since anyone can participate, it is necessary to identify malicious participants among the large number of participants and restrict their activities.

Bitcoin is the first decentralized system to power the BFT consensus algorithm globally. Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) first proposed a solution to the BFT problem in theory, but Bitcoin was the first to implement it in practice.

### Incentive system
In the PoW consensus algorithm, an incentive economy ensures the liveness of the network by incentivizing miners to continue participating in the network. Block rewards and transaction fees provide important economic incentives for miners, which play a key role in maintaining the network's persistence and security. 
- Block Rewards: Bitcoin tokens are earned on the first transaction when a block is created through mining operations.
- Transaction fees: Validate transactions to be included in a block and earn fees from those transactions.

### The Longest Chain
PoW is essentially one vote per CPU. Rational participants will vote for the longest chain. Therefore, the longest chain with the most PoW is chosen as the representative. 
- In order to change the previous block (information about past transactions), an attacker would have to redo the proof of work for that block and all subsequent blocks, and in doing so, catch up and outpace all subsequent blocks.
- To compensate for the evolution of the hardware powering the nodes over time and the changing level of involvement, the Proof of Work difficulty is determined by adjusting the average target based on the average number of blocks per hour; if blocks are generated too quickly, the difficulty increases.

The Bitcoin network ensures liveness by accepting all valid transactions and resolving forks along the longest block (The Longest Chain). 
> How can we be sure of a canonical chain in the midst of many forked chains? From an opportunity cost perspective, the first one makes the most sense. This is because PoW consensus requires physical resources to compute. Attempting to create blocks on multiple forked chains each has a higher opportunity cost compared to choosing a long chain. Therefore, miners will choose the strategy of adding blocks to the longest chain for efficient use of resources, which ensures the stability and integrity of the network as a whole.

### Probabilistic Safety
When distributed consensus systems were originally built by centralized entities, they did not have to consider Byzantine environments, so they actually valued safety over liveness. However, in order to create a globally unstoppable system without a centralized collective, such as Bitcoin, they evolved to probabilistically sacrifice safety in favor of liveness. So PoW guarantees probabilistic safety instead of deterministic safety. 

### PoW Disadvantage 1: 51% Attacks
The downside of PoW is that it cannot guarantee safety if a network attack, such as a 51% attack, succeeds. 

What if the 51% and 49% scenarios persist for a long period of time? In a normal scenario, this rarely happens (the largest was the 7 block re-org in ethereum epoch 121471), but if there is a force that deliberately infiltrates the existing network, it requires a huge amount of hash power, so the longer the fork situation lasts, the more unstable it becomes. And even if the 51% attack is sustained, it will eventually become economically unprofitable for the attacker unless they are motivated to take down some system or value. This is because the party with the highest computing power (51%) generates the most blocks, and it is the party with the highest computing power that loses money as the reliability of the block is destroyed. 

### PoW Disadvantage 2: Excessive Energy Waste
As well as it worked, however, PoW had its own problems. With one vote per CPU, this decentralized consensus mechanism was a huge energy hog, and with a congested network, fees could skyrocket, causing scalability issues. 

## Next: Tendermint and PoS
Excessive energy waste became a major problem, and the next generation of consensus algorithms began to emerge. This is Proof of Stake (PoS), also known as Proof of Stake. There are many ways to implement PoS, but the two main principles of PoS design are chain-based PoS and BFT-based PoS.
- Tendermint (Jae kwon) is a BFT-based Proof of Stake design. 
- Casper the Friendly Ghost (Vlad, Vitalik) is a chain-based PoS design.
- Casper the Friendly Finality Gadget (Vlad) is a hybrid of the two.

Chain-based PoS is a continuation of Bitcoin's decentralized ideology, while BFT-based PoS is a PoS concept that comes from a theoretical foundation in computer science. Therefore, Chain-based PoS is more focused on liveness, while BFT-based PoS is more focused on safety. 
- Ethereum, which is based on Chain, has the phenomenon of chain forking due to stochastic safety issues. As a result, there is a problem called “nothing at stake” that only occurs in Proof of Stake, which is solved by introducing concepts such as staking periods and slashing. 
- Tendermint, which is based on BFT, has deterministic safety (i.e., instant finality), which prevents chains from being forked. However, this can have a significant impact on Liveness if malicious behavior occurs. So, again, concepts like staking periods and slashing are used to solve the problem. 

The Tendermint consensus algorithm is based on BFT, which is what we'll be looking at next. The article will be divided into two parts: one that relates to PBFT, which is the basis of the classic BFT consensus algorithm, and one that relates to the PoS consensus algorithm, which was newly created for public blockchains: 
1. [tendermint_with_bft](./99c1_tendermint_with_bft.md)
2. [tendermint_with_pos](./99c2_tendermint_with_pos.md)

## Resources
- CASTRO, M.AND LISKOV, B. Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance. In Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), USENIX, New Orleans, 1999b.
- Impossibility of Distributed Consensus with One Faulty Process, Michael J. Fischer, Nancy A. Lynch, Michael S. Paterson 
- Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, Oct 2008
- Ethan Buchman, “Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of Blockchains”, Juen. 2016, https://atrium.lib.uoguelph.ca/items/5459099e-67aa-4a23-83ae-d3471d8d8336
