# 99c2. Tendermint with POS
## 목차
0. Tendermint w/ PoS
   1. How PoS(Proof of Stake)  came to be 
   2. PoS Consensus Algorithm 
   3. Initial PoS Security Levels
1. Nothing at stake problem
2. Preventing Short Range Attacks: Slashing
3. Long Range Attack Prevention: Deposit Revocation Period & Weak Subjectivity 

## Tendermint w/ PoS
Tendermint is a consensus algorithm based on BFT theory, which operates as a Replicated State Machine with rotating leader elections and a volatile set of validators. Because of this, Tendermint is able to guarantee deterministic safety (or instant finality). However, in order to operate such a system on a public blockchain where anyone can participate, a PoS mechanism is required. 
> This mechanism is used by the Cosmos Hub, the first hub of the Cosmos Network. This is implemented through the [`x/staking`](./26_module_staking.md) and [`x/slashing`](./27_module_slashing.md) modules, not the Tendermint consensus engine.

### 1. Background of Proof of Stake (PoS) 
The [PBFT](./99c0_pbft_and_pow.md#0-pbft) was known in academia in 1999, but it was not adopted in commercial technology until 2008, when Satoshi Nakamoto created Bitcoin and the [PoW consensus algorithm](./99c0_pbft_and_pow.md#1pow), which commercialized BFT consensus on a global Internet network scale. While this worked well, borrowing from capitalism's incentivized reward system, this distributed consensus mechanism with one vote per CPU was extremely energy intensive and suffered from fee spikes in congested networks, making scalability problematic. The emergence of PoS was motivated by the scalability of blockchains with traditional PoW mining, the high overhead costs of running PoW miners, and the widespread discussion of environmental externalities, all of which have motivated significant resources to be poured into PoS security research. 

### 2. PoS Consensus Algorithms 
In 2011, a [BitcoinTalk thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=27787.0) discussed the concept of Proof of Stake. The solution proposed was that transaction fees could be much lower because the network would not have to support the cost of miners' computing resources. 

In general, the purpose of a consensus algorithm is to securely update state according to the blockchain network's state transition rules. The key difference between PoW and PoS is that PoW gains authority through physical resources, while PoS gains authority through a digital native currency (digital token).

### 3. Initial PoS Security Levels
With the change in the proof of authority, the following questions arise to validate the security of PoS
- “Can we achieve the same level of security as PoW and not deplete physical resources at the same time? 

It is clear that it is possible to avoid wasting physical resources, since anyone who holds a digital token can cast a vote without consuming anything, so the question is summarized as follows
- Can we consistently achieve sound consensus in this way, the same security level of PoW?

To recap, it costs money to get the right to vote, but the vote itself is free. The idea is to copy the work function of PoW to Stake by turning every digital token into a “mining rig” that can be used to sign blocks with a certain probability per second. However, it turns out that pure PoS cannot provide the same level of security, because if multiple blocks are created at the same height and forked, the optimal strategy is to vote on all forked blocks. This is the so-called “Nothing at stake” problem. 

## 2. The Nothing at stake problem
Initially, this problem was explored in various expressions to illustrate the general pitfalls of PoS. In July 2014, Vitalik popularized the problem, which Bitcoin developers describe as “Nothing at stake”. The problem presents the scenario that a voter can effectively break safety without incurring any cost by voting for multiple conflicting blocks at a given block height. 

Vitalik's argument for why it might not be rational for users to vote for a single fork in a PoS environment is called the altruism frame. If we think of a public blockchain as a modern capitalist state, the altruism frame is essentially a combination of three things 
1. the fundamental altruism and direct concern for the well-being of others and the nation as a whole.
2. a person who has psychological and moral inhibitions against manifestly evil behavior (double voting)
3. (Capitalists) who display a frame of fundamental altruism that is driven by the fact that the holders of the country's currency do not want to see the value of their currency decline, but are actually more inclined toward individualism.

This “altruism frame” is an approach that relies on the altruism of its members to maintain the integrity of the public blockchain. While this can work in certain situations, it is not entirely reliable in public blockchains for a number of reasons, including
1. (The tragedy of the commons) Blockchain integrity can be considered a public good. This is the case when it is accessible to everyone, but each individual lacks the incentive to pay to maintain it.
2. (The existence of Byzantine actors) Byzantine actors (malicious actors) cannot have a 0% probability of existence. They are motivated to attack the system for personal gain, and if they become large enough, they can overwhelm altruistic behavior.
3. (Personal Economic Interests First) In a PoS environment that has a capitalist framework, where stakes earn votes and contributions are rewarded, people are more likely to put their own economic interests first. For example, if the short-term economic benefits of Byzantine behavior outweigh the long-term altruistic behavior, it is possible that many participants will engage in attacks.
> However, the altruism frame is an important concept to keep in mind in order to maximize the benefits of a well-functioning protocol.

Eventually, this leads to the conclusion that PoS will have to devise additional mechanisms to remove its dependence on the altruism frame and achieve a high level of security similar to PoW. Given that blockchains are distributed data stores that can only be added to without reversal, and that time only flows forward to achieve state transitions, we can think of the problem from two perspectives
1. Short Range Attack 
2. Long Range Attack

## 3. Preventing Short Range Attacks: Slashing
Short-range attacks include double-spending, vote invalidation, and various other attacks that undermine Liveness in a public blockchain environment. In a previous article, we discussed the importance of the BFT-based [two-stage voting and locking mechanism](./99c1_tendermint_with_bft.md#3-2-stage-voting-and-locking-mechanism-importance) to prevent short-range attacks such as double signatures. So these are defenses against Byzantine behavior that has already occurred, but they don't prevent the motivation for Byzantine behavior itself in a PoS environment.

### Slashing
A good solution to defend against Byzantine behavior in PoS environments is the slashing mechanism. This is also used in chain-based PoS like Ethereum. The mechanism requires users to deposit funds into the network in order to gain voting rights and receive rewards for their participation, and if fraudulent behavior (voting for multiple forks) is detected in a short period of time, evidence of the transaction is recorded in the original chain, causing the deposited funds to be destroyed or reduced. The expected scenarios are as follows
1. Validator A commits Byzantine behavior, double voting.
2. The network detects A's Byzantine behavior and records evidence on the blockchain. 
3. A is economically penalized by having the deposit they deposited removed or reduced. 

This economic penalty can induce validators to follow the optimal strategy of voting for only one fork. 

## 4. Preventing Long Range Attacks: Deposit Revocation Period & Weak Subjectivity 
Long Range Attack (LRA) is an important problem that can occur in PoS-based consensus algorithms. This is due to the fact that the composition of the voting population can change over time due to the free deposit and withdrawal of deposits. An attacker can exploit this to create a new chain from the genesis block. This attack exploits the “Nothing at stake” problem in PoS and requires mitigation.

### Deposit revocation period
There is an 'Unbonding Period' that prevents validators from transferring their deposits for a period of time before they can release them. This ensures that the validator remains responsible for the safety of the network for a period of time after releasing the deposit. For example, if a validator wants to release their deposited security deposit, they can't withdraw it during the unbonding period, which can be weeks or months. During this time, the validator is still accountable to the network and will be punished for any byzantine behavior.

### Weak Subjectivity 
Weak subjectivity is a concept in PoS-based blockchains that addresses the information, security, and consensus issues when a new node joins the network. It allows new nodes to safely join the network and plays an important role in preventing LRA.

To understand weak subjectivity, we first need to understand the concepts of objectivity and subjectivity used in existing blockchain protocols: 
- An objective system is one in which a new node entering the network with no knowledge other than the protocol definition and a set of all published blocks and other important messages can reach the exact same conclusion independently of the rest of the network in its current state. For example, Bitcoin chooses the chain that contains the most proof-of-work.
- Subjective systems: Systems have a stable state where different nodes reach different conclusions, and require social information (e.g., reputation) to participate. For example, Ripple relies on social reputation information to select trusted nodes. 

Weak subjectivity for PoS is a concept that sits somewhere between the objectivity of PoW systems above and the subjectivity of social network-based systems, and has three elements that define it 
1. protocol definition
2. the history and state changes of the blockchain
3. the state of the blockchain at a particular point in time in the past

### How to Prevent LRA with Weak Subjectivity 
The LRA prevention method based on weak subjectivity is suitable for validators and full nodes in Tendermint-based blockchains. In addition, light client nodes must be designed to synchronize with the network frequently, as they are constantly connected to the network and collect subjective information.
- Bitcoin light clients need to synchronize the chain of block headers and find the block header with the most proof-of-work.
- Tendermint light clients only need to keep up with changes to the validator set and check for precommits of at least 2/3 of the latest blocks to stay up to date. 

#### 1. Initial synchronization
When a light client first connects to the network, it should verify the latest block hash from a trusted source or multiple sources. This is necessary to get a reliable picture of the state of the network. This initial synchronization process ensures that new nodes can reach the same conclusions about the current state independently of the rest of the network.
> New nodes perform initial synchronization by obtaining the latest block hash from a trusted source (e.g., a trusted node in the network).

#### 2. Regular state synchronization
Light clients should synchronize with the latest validator set on a regular basis. This ensures that it is aware of changes to the validator set in time and prevents Long Range Attacks, where validators with released deposits create new chains. 
> Light clients periodically connect to the network to synchronize their state with the latest validator set. This ensures that they are always up to date and reduces the risk of long range attacks.


These mechanisms are important to ensure the safety and integrity of the network in the Tendermint and PoS environment.


## Resources
- Interchain, 'Consensus Compare: Casper vs. Tendermint', https://blog.cosmos.network/consensus-compare-casper-vs-tendermint-6df154ad56ae
- Vitalik Buterin, "Proof of Stake: How I Learned to Love Weak Subjectivity", November 25. 2014, https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/11/25/proof-stake-learned-love-weak-subjectivity
- Cosmos Whitepaper, https://cosmos.network/whitepaper
- Jae Kwon, 'Tendermint: Consensus without Mining', 2014, https://tendermint.com/static/docs/tendermint.pdf
- Ethan Buchman, "Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of Blockchains", Juen. 2016, https://atrium.lib.uoguelph.ca/items/5459099e-67aa-4a23-83ae-d3471d8d8336

