# 99c4. CometBFT and ABCI 2.0
## Contents
0. CometBFT
1. ABCI 2.0
   1. PrepareProposal Method 
   2. ProcessProposal Method 
   3. ExtendVote Method
   4. VerifyVoteExtension Method 
   5. FinalizeBlock Method

## 0. CometBFT
CometBFT is a fork of [99c3's Tendermint Core](./99c3_tendermint_and_abci.md), so it's safe to say that the basic foundation is the same as the Tendermint Core we've seen so far, so you can equate CometBFT to Tendermint Core when understanding the concepts. 
```
              +---------------------+
              |                     |
              |     Application     |
              |                     |
              +--------+---+--------+
                       ^   |
                       |   | ABCI
                       |   v
              +--------+---+--------+
              |                     |
              |                     |
              |       CometBFT      |
              |                     |
              |                     |
              +---------------------+
```



> The actual Cosmos SDK [migrated from Tendermint Core to CometBFT](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14870) is available in v0.47.

## 1. ABCI 2.0
The most notable change in CometBFT is the Application Blockchain Interface (ABCI). ABCI 2.0 (or ABCI++) is designed to give application developers more flexibility and control in the Cosmos SDK. Here's what the ADR documentation says about it 
- [ADR 60: ABCI 1.0 Integration (Phase I)](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.50/build/architecture/adr-060-abci-1.0)
- [ADR 64: ABCI 2.0 Integration (Phase II)](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.50/build/architecture/adr-064-abci-2.0)

ABCI 2.0 (or ABCI++) is an evolution of ABCI and is the interface for interaction between CometBFT and applications. If you compare the codebases in [99c3_tendermint_core_and_abci](./99c3_tendermint_core_and_abci.md) to the files in [cometBFT's abci/types/application.go](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/v0.38.x/abci/types/application.go), you'll see that they are largely identical, but ABCI 2.0 adds methods not found in Tendermint Core:
```go
PrepareProposal(ctx context.Context, req *PrepareProposalRequest) (*PrepareProposalResponse, error)

ProcessProposal(ctx context.Context, req *ProcessProposalRequest) (*ProcessProposalResponse, error)

FinalizeBlock(ctx context.Context, req *FinalizeBlockRequest) (*FinalizeBlockResponse, error)

ExtendVote(ctx context.Context, req *ExtendVoteRequest) (*ExtendVoteResponse, error)

VerifyVoteExtension(ctx context.Context, req *VerifyVoteExtensionRequest) (*VerifyVoteExtensionResponse, error)
```

### 1. PrepareProposal Method 
The `PrepareProposal` ABCI method serves to request that the block proposer ask the application to evaluate the transactions to be included in the next block. 
- Before this method was introduced, `CheckTx` evaluated the validity of the transaction, which is still valid. However, `CheckTx` is now also responsible for adding valid transactions to the application's mempool data structure. 
- Because `PrepareProposal` only performs simple validation logic, this gives application developers greater flexibility to allow applications to define and control their own mempools to implement sophisticated transaction prioritization and filtering mechanisms. 

### 2. ProcessProposal Method 
The `ProcessProposal` ABCI method is responsible for ensuring the validity of the proposed block containing the transactions selected in the `PrepareProposal` step. 
- Different applications may use different methods to determine the validity of a proposed block. 
- For most applications, calling the `AnteHandler` chain is sufficient, but some applications may require additional control, such as ensuring that certain transactions are included in a specific order or that certain transactions must be included.

The Cosmos SDK provides a default `ProcessProposal` implementation that validates all transactions using a `CheckTx` flow, an `AnteHandler`, and always returns ACCEPT unless all transactions are decoded. This is adequate for most applications, but if additional validation is required, application developers can implement their own validation logic to give them more control over how their application determines and handles the validity of blocks.


### 3. ExtendVote Method
The `ExtendVote` ABCI method allows each validator to extend the pre-commit phase of the CometBFT consensus process. Specifically, it allows applications to perform custom business logic to provide additional data to the pre-commit vote. This data is called “vote extension” and is sent along with the vote and made available to applications at the next level.


Here's how it works
1. data transmission: The vote extension is broadcast and received with the vote.
2. data reception: The proponent of the next block receives the vote extension via `RequestPrepareProposal.local_last_commit.votes`.
3. data format: If the application has no vote extension information to provide, it returns a zero-byte array.

Each validator submits its own voting extensions, but only the proposer in the next block receives all the voting extensions. Not all voting extensions are included. The verifier only needs to wait for at least 2/3 pre-commit votes.


### 4. VerifyVoteExtension method 
The `VerifyVoteExtension` method allows the validator to validate the “vote extension” data attached to each pre-commit message it receives. If the validation fails, the corresponding pre-commit message is considered invalid and ignored by CometBFT. 

CometBFT uses `VerifyVoteExtension` to validate pre-commit votes. Specifically, for pre-commit messages, CometBFT handles them as follows
1. reject messages that do not contain a signed vote and a signed vote extension.
2. reject the message if the verification of the signed vote and signed vote extension fails.
3. reject the message if the application has rejected `VerifyVoteExtension`.
4. Otherwise, CometBFT accepts the pre-commit message.

If the correct validator repeatedly fails to validate the vote extension, CometBFT may not commit the block even if a sufficient number of (+2/3) validators send pre-commit votes for the block. Therefore, `VerifyVoteExtension` should be used with caution. For liveness, CometBFT recommends that if an application detects an invalid vote extension, it should accept it in the `ResponseVerifyVoteExtension` and ignore it within the actual application logic. 


### 5. FinalizeBlock method
The `FinalizeBlock` ABCI method passes a determined block to the application, causing it to definitively execute the transactions within the block and update its state. Commits to the block and transaction results are returned in the parameters of `ResponseFinalizeBlock` and are included in the header of the next block. CometBFT calls this when a new block is determined. 

`FinalizeBlock` uses the current ABCI execution flow of `BeginBlock`, one or more `DeliverTx`s, and `EndBlock` encapsulated in a single ABCI method. This allows us to simplify the execution flow while maintaining consistency. 


## Resources
- https://docs.cometbft.com/main/spec/abci/
- https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.50/build/architecture/adr-060-abci-1.0
- https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.50/build/architecture/adr-064-abci-2.0